
A photovoltaic power generation system comprises: a rectangular- or square-shaped solar cell module M including one or more solar cell elements 5; first and second racks 101, 102 assembled to opposite sides of the solar cell module M, respectively; and a weight member 104 disposed at a predetermined place of the first rack 101 and/or the second rack 102. The system is adapted to be held to place by means of the weight member 104 in order that the solar cell module M may not be blown away by the wind. Therefore, the system may be used simply by placing the system on an installation surface such as a flat roof. This results in the reduction of the number of assembly steps involved in installation works and the reduction of fabrication costs and time. Thus is achieved cost reduction. 



1. A photovoltaic power generation system comprising: 
a rectangular- or square-shaped solar cell module including one or more solar cell elements; 
first and second racks assembled to opposite sides of the solar cell module, respectively; and 
a weight member disposed at a predetermined place of the first rack and/or the second rack. 

 

2. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 1, wherein the first rack has a greater height than the second rack thereby to incline the solar cell module. 
 

3. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 1, wherein the first rack and the second rack are each provided with a mounting member for insertion of the solar cell module. 
 

4. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 3, wherein the mounting member includes: a guide having a function as an insertion guide for the solar cell module; and a pair of bent portions folded inwardly for fixing the inserted solar cell module to inhibit the back-forth movement thereof. 
 

5. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 1, wherein the pair of the bent portions of the first rack and/or the second rack is bent at an angle smaller than 90°. 
 

6. A photovoltaic power generation system comprising: 
a plurality of solar cell units arranged along a direction of placement of racks of a solar cell module and/or a perpendicular direction thereof, the solar cell unit including a rectangular- or square-shaped solar cell module including one or more solar cell elements; and the racks assembled to opposite sides of the solar cell module, 
the system further comprising a connecting member for interconnecting the racks of adjoining solar cell units. 

 

7. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 6, wherein the rack includes a first rack and a second rack having a smaller height than the first rack, 
wherein the connecting member interconnects the first rack of a solar cell unit and the second rack of a solar cell unit adjoining thereto. 

 

8. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 7, wherein the second rack is formed with a first fit portion at an end thereof, 
wherein the first rack is formed with a second fit portion an end thereof, and 
wherein the connecting member includes a bent portion designed to clamp these interconnected first fit portion and the second fir portion in overlapped relation. 

 

9. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 8, wherein the first rack, the second rack and/or the connecting member are formed from a conductive material and the racks are set at a substantially equal potential. 
 

10. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 6, wherein a weight member is disposed at a predetermined place of the first rack and/or the second rack. 
 

11. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 7, wherein the racks include a first rack and a second rack having a smaller height than the first rack, and 
wherein the connecting member interconnects the respective first racks and/or the respective second racks of adjoining solar cell unit. 

 

12. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 11, wherein each of the racks is formed with a connection guide portion, 
wherein the connecting member includes an upper member, a lower member and a fastening structure for fastening these members with each other, and 
wherein the upper member and the lower member are fastened with each other in a state where the connection guide portion is inserted between the upper member and the lower member. 

 

13. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 12, wherein the connection guide portion is formed with a hole at a predetermined position, whereas the upper member is formed with a lug to be inserted in the hole formed in the connection guide portion. 
 

14. A photovoltaic power generation system comprising: 
a rectangular- or square-shaped solar cell module including one or more solar cell elements; and 
racks assembled to opposite sides of the solar cell module, respectively, 
wherein a space region allowing an air flow therein is present under the solar cell module, whereas an air-inflow blocking member for blocking the air flow into the space region is disposed in the vicinity of the space region. 

 

15. A photovoltaic power generation system according to claim 14, wherein the air-inflow blocking member is provided with a slant plane for guiding an air flow toward the slant plane to flow over an upper side of the solar cell module. 
 

16. A photovoltaic power generation system comprising: a plurality of solar cell units arranged along a direction of placement of racks of a solar cell module and/or along a direction perpendicular thereof, the solar cell unit including a rectangular- or square-shaped solar cell module including one or more solar cell elements; and the racks assembled to opposite sides of the solar cell module, respectively, 
wherein a space region allowing an air flow therein is present under the solar cell module, whereas an air-inflow blocking member for blocking the air flow into the space region is disposed along the direction of the placement of the racks located in the vicinity of the space region.

 
