
Apparatus is provided for securing solar energy collection devices to a roof. A plurality of rails (103, 104) are provided. Each rail is attachable to a roof (102) at mutually displaced positions and defines a rail slot (702, 915). Attachment devices (917) are provided, each configured to engage with a rail slot (702, 915) such that in a first condition the devices are free to move along the slot and in the second condition the devices are secured within the slot. The attachment devices (917) include an engaging portion (919) that protrudes from the slot to engage with a solar energy collection device.



1. Apparatus for securing solar energy collection devices to a roof, comprising:
a plurality of rails, each said rail attachable to a roof at mutually displaced positions and defining a rail slot;
attachment devices each configured to engage with a rail slot, such that in a first condition said devices are free to move along said slot and in a second condition said devices are secured within said slot; and
said attachment devices include an engaging portion that protrudes from said slot to engage with a solar energy collection device.



2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said rail includes a cavity for receiving one or more transmission cables.


3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an attachment device comprises a bolt having a head and a thread each sized such that said head is slidable in the rail slot from an open end to a specified fixing position.


4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an attachment device includes a cam-like portion that is insertable into a selected rail slot from above and thereafter is twistable to a locked position in said selected rail slot.


5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said rail is located over a roof membrane and is attached to the roof through said membrane so as to secure the membrane in addition to securing the rail.


6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said rail is located at an intersection of adjacent roof membranes and includes a mechanism for securing and sealing said membranes.


7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said rail is defined by a first channel section and a second slot section, such that the membranes are secured and sealed between said first section and said second section.


8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mounting rail is integrally formed with a roof panel.


9. On a roof of a building, apparatus for collecting solar energy, comprising:
a plurality of solar energy collection devices;
a plurality of rails attached to said roof at mutually displaced positions and each defining a rail slot;
attachment devices each including an engaging portion that engages with a selected rail slot and a protruding portion that secures solar collection devices.



10. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said rail includes a cavity cavity for receiving one or more transmission cables or for receiving pipes or hoses conveying a heated liquid.


11. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein an attachment device comprises a bolt having a head and a thread each sized such that said head is slidable in the rail slot from an open end to a specified fixing position.


12. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein an attachment device includes a cam-like portion that is insertable into a selected rail slot from above and thereafter is twistable to a locked position in said selected rail slot.


13. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said rail is located over a roof membrane and is attached to the roof through said membrane so as to secure the membrane in addition to securing the rail.


14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said rail is located at an intersection of adjacent roof membranes and includes a mechanism for securing and sealing said membranes.


15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said rail is defined by a first channel section and a second slot section, such that the membranes are secured and sealed between said first section and said second section.


16. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said mounting rail is integrally formed with a roof panel.


17. A method of installing solar energy collection devices onto a roof of a building, comprising the steps of:
fixing a plurality of rails to a roof at mutually displaced positions, wherein each said rail includes a rail slot;
placing a first solar energy collection device over at least one of said rails; and
attaching said solar energy collection device to a first rail using an attachment device that includes an engagement portion that engages with the rail slot of said first rail and a protruding portion that secures said first solar energy collection device.



18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said fixing step includes locating the rail over a roof membrane and attaching the rail to the roof through the membrane so as to secure the membrane to the roof in addition to securing the rail.


19. A method according to claim 17, wherein the rail is located at an intersection of adjacent roof membranes and includes a securing and sealing step for securing and sealing said membranes.


20. A method according to claim 19, wherein said securing step comprises the steps of:
locating a first channel section of the rail that defines a channel onto the roof;
placing said adjacent roof membranes over said channel; and
securing said membranes by forcing a second slot section of said rail into said channel.



21. A method according to claim 17, wherein said attachment device is a bolt (with a head and a thread) and said attaching step includes sliding said bolt along a rail with the head of said bolt secured by said rail slot.


22. A method according to claim 17, wherein said attachment device includes a cam-like portion and said attaching step includes inserting said cam-like portion into said rail slot and twisting the attachment device.


23. A method according to claim 17, wherein a rail includes a longitudinal cavity, including the step of inserting transmission cables or pipes/hoses through said longitudinal cavity.

