
Solar cell modules and mounting methods are disclosed. A solar cell module includes one or more photovoltaic (PV) cells arranged in a substantially planar fashion. Each PV cell has a front side and a back side. The PV cells are adapted to produce an electric voltage when light is incident upon the front side. A rigid back plane is attached to the PV cells such that the back plane provides structural support from the back side. The rigid back plane includes a structural component having a plurality of voids. 



1. A solar cell module, comprising: 
one or more photovoltaic (PV) cells arranged in a substantially planar fashion, wherein each solar cell has a front side and a back side, wherein the one or more PV cells are adapted to produce an electric voltage when light is incident upon the front side; and 
a rigid back plane attached to the one or more PV cells such that the back plane provides structural support from the back side, wherein the rigid back plane includes a structural component having a plurality of voids. 

 

2. The solar cell module of claim 1, further comprising an encapsulant back sheet disposed between the rigid backplane and the one or more PV cells. 
 

3. The solar cell module of claim 1, further comprising a front encapsulant, wherein the solar cell modules are disposed between the front encapsulant and the rigid back plane.. 
 

4. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the back plane is made of a machinable material. 
 

5. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the structural component is made using one or more materials selected from the group of plastics, polypropylene, polycarbonate, Styrofoam, concrete, metal, steel, copper, aluminum, carbon fibers, Kevlar, wood, plywood, fiberboard and other materials with similar elasticity or compressibility properties in the range of the foregoing materials. 
 

6. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the structural component is in the form of a wire cloth, perforated material, molded material, fiberglass reinforced plastic grate, or expanded material including but not limited to steel sheet expanded, GP unpolished low-carbon steel, and combinations of these and/or related materials. 
 

7. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the structural component includes a honeycomb material, wherein the voids are in the form of honeycomb channels communicating across a thickness of the back plane. 
 

8. The solar cell module of claim 7 wherein the honeycomb channels are characterized by a cell size ranging from about 1/32″ to about 12″
 

9. The solar cell module of claim 7 wherein the honeycomb material is characterized by a thickness ranging from about 1/32″ to about 12″. 
 

10. The solar cell module of claim 7 wherein the honeycomb material is characterized by a thickness ranging from about ¼″ to about ⅓″. 
 

11. The solar cell module of claim 7 wherein the honeycomb material is characterized by a thickness ranging from about ⅛″ to about ½″. 
 

12. The solar cell module of claim 7, further comprising a skin attached to a support surface of the honeycomb material such that the skin rigidizes the honeycomb material. 
 

13. The solar cell module of claim 12 wherein the skin is made of a textile, plastic sheet or sheet metal. 
 

14. The solar cell module of claim 13, wherein the honeycomb material and skin are made of thermally conductive materials. 
 

15. The solar cell module of claim 7 further comprising a planar element attached to a front support surface of the honeycomb material and a second planar element attached to a back support surface of the honeycomb material, whereby the honeycomb material is sandwiched between the first and second planar elements. 
 

16. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the structural component is made of a thermally conductive material. 
 

17. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein one or more PV cells are electrically insulated from the back plane. 
 

18. The solar cell module of claim 17 wherein the structural member is made of a metal. 
 

19. The solar cell module of claim 18 wherein the metal is aluminum. 
 

20. The solar cell module of claim 17 wherein the structural member is in the form of a honeycomb material. 
 

21. The solar cell module of claim 20 further comprising a skin attached to a support surface of the honeycomb material such that the skin rigidizes the honeycomb material. 
 

22. The solar cell module of claim 21 wherein the skin is made of an electrically insulating material. 
 

23. The solar cell module of claim 21 wherein the skin is made of an electrically conductive material having an insulating coating between the electrically conductive material and the one or more PV cells. 
 

24. The solar cell module of claim 1, wherein the plurality of voids includes a large void that occupies the volume of several smaller voids. 
 

25. The solar cell module of claim 24 further comprising a junction box, LED indicator, bypass diode, transformer, electrical converter, electrical circuit, or cooling element disposed within the large void. 
 

26. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein one or more of the voids serve as conduits for electrical wiring to the one or more PV cells. 
 

27. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein one or more of the voids serve as conduits for cooling or heating of the one or more PV cells. 
 

28. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein one or more of the voids serve as conduits for drainage of the solar cell module. 
 

29. The solar cell module of claim 1, further comprising an edge-strengthening member connected along an edge of the structural member. 
 

30. The solar cell module of claim 29 wherein the edge-strengthening member includes a bar or u-channel. 
 

31. The solar cell module of claim 29 wherein the edge-strengthening member includes one or more holes configured to facilitate mounting of the solar cell module. 
 

32. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein the solar cell module has a jigsaw puzzle shape that facilitates interconnection of the solar cell module with other correspondingly shaped solar cell modules. 
 

33. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein an edge of the backplane is configured to provide an overlapping or interlocking joint with correspondingly configured solar cell module. 
 

34. The solar cell module of claim 1 wherein an edge of the backplane includes one or more electrical connectors that facilitate electrical interconnection of the one or more PV cells with other PV cells in another solar cell module. 
 

35. A method for mounting one or more photovoltaic (PV) cells, comprising the steps of: 
arranging one or more PV cells in a substantially planar fashion, wherein each PV cell has a front side and a back side, wherein the one or more photovoltaic cells are adapted to produce an electric voltage when light is incident upon the front side; and 
attaching a rigid back plane to the one or more PV cells such that the back plane provides structural support from the back side, wherein the back plane includes a structural component having a plurality of voids. 

 

36. The method of claim 35 wherein the structural component includes a honeycomb material, wherein the voids are in the form of honeycomb channels communicating across a thickness of the back plane. 
 

37. The method of claim 36, further comprising the step of attaching a skin to a support surface of the honeycomb material such that the skin rigidizes the honeycomb material. 
 

38. The method of claim 35, further comprising using one or more of the voids as conduits for electrical wiring to the one or more PV cells. 
 

39. The method of claim 35, further comprising using one or more of the voids as conduits for cooling or heating of the one or more PV cells. 
 

40. The method of claim 35, further comprising using one or more of the voids as conduits for drainage. 
 

41. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of forming a large void in the structural component that occupies the volume of several smaller voids, wherein the large void provides a multifunctional space within the backplane. 
 

42. The method of claim 41, further comprising disposing a junction box, LED indicator, bypass diode, transformer, electrical converter, electrical circuit, or cooling element disposed within the large void. 
 

43. The method of claim 35, further comprising connecting an edge-strengthening member along an edge of the structural member.
 
