
A solar roof tile comprising an elongate unit whose length is a multiple of the length of a standard roof tile so that it may be substituted for a corresponding number of such tiles, and comprises an elongate trough-shaped member which is adapted to house a heat exchanger including fluid conduits, and a co-operating cover-plate which includes an aperture adapted to receive a transparent cover for the trough-shaped member, or a photovoltaic collector. 



1. A solar roof tile comprising an elongate unit whose length is a multiple of the length of a standard roof tile so that it may be substituted for a corresponding number of such tiles, and comprises an elongate trough-shaped member which is adapted to house a heat exchanger including fluid conduits, and a co-operating cover-plate which includes an aperture adapted to receive a transparent cover for the trough-shaped member, or a photovoltaic collector. 
 

2. A solar roof tile according to claim 1 in which the trough-shaped member and the cover-plate are formed as separate components. 
 

3. A solar roof tile according to claim 1 in which the trough-shaped member and the cover-plate are integrally moulded together. 
 

4. A solar roof tile according to any preceding claim in which the front section of the outer surface of the cover-plate is sloped in towards the trough region, so that when the tile is mounted in a conventional sloping position on a roof, shading of an internal heat exchanger is minimised. 
 

5. A solar roof tile according to any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising a heat exchanger comprising a pair of roll-bonded aluminium plates defining a pattern of fluid conduits between them. 
 

6. A solar roof tile according to any preceding claim in which the cover-plate comprises a rigid moulding of a plastics material, having front and rear edges formed with downwardly dependent flanges, and ribs on the internal rear surface which act to stiffen the structure. 
 

7. A solar roof tile according to claim 6 in which the free edges of the ribs and flanges are formed with a series of gaps which are so arranged as to allow air to circulate through the internal compartments formed between the tile and an underlying support surface. 
 

8. A solar roof tile according to any preceding claim in which the base of the trough incorporates insulating material. 
 

9. A solar roof tile according to any preceding claim in which the lower edges at least, are formed with a series of mouldings which mimic the overlap joints between adjacent roof tiles, at corresponding spacings. 
 

10. A solar roof tile according to any preceding claim which incorporates fixing locations which are formed as blind holes adapted to be pierced by fixings such as screws, in use. 
 

11. A solar roof tile according to claim 2 in which the cover-plate is adapted to be utilised separately as a photovoltaic collector or a roof window, by mounting a suitable photovoltaic element or a transparent plate in the aperture. 
 

12. A solar roof tile assembly comprising a pair of tiles according to any preceding claim, which are connected together in an end-to-end relationship by a flexible hinge member so that they can be folded together for transportation purposes. 
 

13. A cover-plate for a solar roof tile according to claim 2, the cover plate comprising an elongate unit whose length is a multiple of the length of a standard roof tile so that it may be substituted for a corresponding number of such tiles, an aperture adapted to receive a transparent cover or a photovoltaic collector, downwardly dependent stiffening flanges along the front and rear edges, the side edges carrying respective overlap and underlap protrusions to cooperate with adjacent tiles, and gaps along the free edges of the flanges to provide for air circulation. 
 

14. A cover-plate according to claim 13 further comprising a series of mouldings along the front edge flange at least, which mimic the overlap joints between adjacent roof tiles of normal width. 
 

15. A cover-plate according to claim 14 in which the said mouldings also incorporate at least some of the air circulation gaps. 
 

16. A trough-shaped solar thermal collector housing for a solar roof-tile according to claim 2, comprising a formation of ledges or protrusions along its internal surfaces, adapted to locate a thermal collector plate. 
 

17. A solar roof tile substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
 
