
Disclosed herein is a three-phase, grid interactive inverter capable of multiple modes of operation including: a normal mode for transferring DC power to a utility grid, a constant AC current mode for limiting inverter output, a constant DC voltage mode used for DC testing, and a PV array simulation mode for testing of other inverters in the manufacturing process. 



1. A three-phase inverter that connects a photovoltaic panel to an AC utility grid comprising: 
a set of transistors that convert DC power to AC power; 
a digital signal processor that controls said transistors; and 
a control algorithm that controls said transistors to operate in normal operation mode as well as at least one user selectable test mode. 

 

2. The inverter of claim 1 wherein said at least one test mode comprises a constant DC voltage mode in which power is allowed to flow either from a DC side of said inverter to an AC side or said inverter or from said AC side to said DC side as required to maintain a substantially constant voltage on said DC side of said inverter. 
 

3. The inverter of claim 2 wherein said constant DC voltage mode is used to test for proper installation of a photovoltaic panel that is electrically connected to the DC side of said inverter. 
 

4. The inverter of claim 1 wherein said at least one test mode comprises a PV simulation mode. 
 

5. The inverter of claim 4 wherein said inverter maintains voltage and limits current at the DC side of said inverter in a way that is substantially similar to the voltage-current characteristics of a PV array. 
 

6. The inverter of claim 2 wherein said at least one test mode comprises a PV simulation mode. 
 

7. The inverter of claim 6 wherein said inverter maintains voltage and limits current at the DC side of said inverter in a way that is substantially similar to the voltage-current characteristics of a PV array. 
 

8. A method of operating a three phase inverter for a batteryless photovoltaic system comprising the steps of: 
providing a set of transistors that convert DC power to AC power; 
providing a digital signal processor that controls said transistors; and 
controlling said transistors to operate in normal operation mode as well as at least one user selectable test mode. 

 

9. The method of claim 8 wherein controlling said transistors to operate in said at least one of said test modes comprises controlling said transistors to operate in a constant DC voltage mode which comprises allowing power to flow either from a DC side of said inverter to an AC side or said inverter or from said AC side to said DC side as required to maintain a substantially constant voltage on said DC side of said inverter. 
 

10. The inverter of claim 9 wherein said transistors are controlled to operate in said constant DC voltage mode to test for proper installation of a photovoltaic panel that is electrically connected to the DC side of said inverter. 
 

11. The inverter of claim 8 wherein controlling said transistors to operate in said at least one of said test modes comprises controlling said transistors to operate in a PV simulation mode. 
 

12. The inverter of claim 11 wherein controlling said transistors to operate in said PV simulation mode comprises maintaining voltage and limiting current at the DC side of said inverter in a way that is substantially similar to the voltage-current characteristics of a PV array. 
 

13. The inverter of claim 9 wherein controlling said transistors to operate in said at least one of said test modes comprises controlling said transistors to operate in a PV simulation mode. 
 

14. The inverter of claim 13 wherein controlling said transistors to operate in said PV simulation mode comprises maintaining voltage and limiting current at the DC side of said inverter in a way that is substantially similar to the voltage-current characteristics of a PV array.
 
