
A solar roofing kit for placing over a section of roof deck to generate electricity. The kit comprises at least one elongated strip of flexible photovoltaic material having a predetermined length and at least one panel supporting the strip. The panels have a riser or rib that extends generally perpendicularly away from the edge to engage and elevate a part of an adjacent panel. The kit also includes at least one side flashing for extending along and sealing at least one of the left and right edges of a panel; at least one splice plate for interconnecting adjacent left and right edges of two panels; at least one top flashing for extending along and sealing the top edge of a panel; and at least one bottom flashing for extending along and sealing the bottom edge of a panel.



1. A roofing system for supporting a sheet of photovoltaic material, the system comprising:
at least one panel having a support plate adapted to support the photovoltaic sheet;
a rib extending generally perpendicularly from one edge of the support plate to a distal end;
a receiver flange extending from the distal end of the rib over the support plate;
a hem extending from an opposite edge of the support plate, where the hem is adapted to engage a receiver flange on another panel when the panel is mounted on the roof adjacent other panels;
wherein the rib extends a predetermined distance greater than the thickness of the photovoltaic material so that the receiver flange can extend over the photovoltaic material when it is installed on the support plate.



2. The roofing system of claim 1 further including at least one splice plate for interconnecting the panels, the splice plate including a central cover and a base extending laterally from either side of the central cover.


3. The splice plate of claim 2 wherein the base includes a lateral check along a lateral edge.


4. The splice plate of claim 2 wherein the base and the central cover form a central check.


5. The roofing system of claim 1 further including at least one closure adapted to be disposed on an edge of the panel to cover and close the edge.


6. The roofing system of claim 1 further including at least one flashing, where the flashing is one of a starter strip, a rake edge, and a transition flashing.


7. A roofing panel including:
a substantially flat portion that extends between top and bottom edges as well as left and right edges;
a riser extending away from one of the top and bottom edges in a direction generally perpendicularly from the flat portion toward a remote end;
an overhang extending away from the remote end of the riser; and
a sheet having photovoltaic material and an adhesive on a back surface of the sheet, the sheet being applied to the flat portion of the panel with the adhesive bonding to the flat portion.



8. The sheet of claim 7 further having amorphous solar cells encapsulated in a high light transmissive polymer.


9. The sheet of claim 8 wherein the high light transmissive polymer is ETFE.


10. The panel of claim 7 wherein the adhesive includes an ethylene propylene copolymer adhesive sealant.


11. The panel of claim 10 wherein the adhesive includes a microbial inhibitor.


12. A roofing kit for placing over a section of roof deck to generate electricity, the kit comprising:
at least one elongated strip of flexible photovoltaic material having a predetermined length;
at least one panel supporting the strip where the panels each have edges on the top, bottom, left and right; the panels having a riser on one of the top and bottom edge, where the riser extends generally perpendicularly away from the edge;
at least one side flashing for extending along and sealing at least one of the left and right edges of a panel;
at least one splice plate for interconnecting adjacent left and right edges of two panels;
at least one top flashing for extending along and sealing the top edge of a panel; and
at least one bottom flashing for extending along and sealing the bottom edge of a panel.



13. The kit of claim 12 further including dummy panels decorated to match the appearance of the panels having strips of photovoltaic material.


14. The kit of claim 12 further including at least one stack flashing for flashing around a vent stack.


15. The kit of claim 12 further including at least one anchoring clip.


16. The kit of claim 12 wherein the splice plate includes a slot housing defining left and right slots for receiving the edges from the left and right panels, respectively, a left apron connected to the slot housing adjacent the left slot for extending under the left panel, the left apron terminating in a distal check;
a right apron connected to the slot housing adjacent the right slot for extending under the right panel, the right apron terminating in a distal check



17. The kit of claim 12 wherein the side flashing includes an apron for extending under the panel, the apron including a check along one edge of the apron;
a slot housing connected to the apron at its opposite edge and forming a slot for receiving an edge of a panel;
a side wall extending up from the slot housing; and
a mounting flange supported on the side wall.



18. A splice plate for interconnecting laterally disposed left and right solar roofing panels on a roof including:
a slot housing defining left and right slots for receiving edges from the left and right panels, respectively,
a left apron connected to the slot housing adjacent the left slot for extending under the left panel, the left apron terminating in a distal check;
a right apron connected to the slot housing adjacent the right slot for extending under the right panel, the right apron terminating in a distal check;
wherein the splice plate interconnects the panels and prevents water from leaking between the two panels.



19. A closure assembly for the side of a panel in a solar roofing system, the assembly comprising:
a cover support including an apron for extending under the panel, the apron including a check along one edge of the apron;
a slot housing connected to the apron at its opposite edge and forming a slot for receiving an edge of a panel;
a side wall extending up from the slot housing; and
a mounting flange supported on the side wall.



20. The closure assembly of claim 19 further including a cover for mounting on the cover support, the cover including:
a hem for engaging the mounting flange;
a cover box extending away from the hem; and
an apron extending from the cover box to a distal edge having a check.



21. A top closure for the side of a top panel in a solar roofing system, the top closure comprising:
an inside apron for extending under the top panel, the inside apron including a check;
a slot housing connected to the inside apron defining a slot for receiving an edge of the top panel;
an inclined surface assembly connected to the slot housing; and
an outside apron connected to the inclined surface assembly and extending away from it to a check.


