
Apparatus is provided for supporting a solar energy collection device (601, 602). The apparatus is substantially wedge-shaped with a base (102) for contacting a roof surface (203) and an inclined front face (103) for supporting the device (601). The apparatus is configured such that the total weight is adjustable so as to apply an appropriate loading on the roof. In a first embodiment ballast is supplied to a ballast cavity (105). In an alternative embodiment, wedge-shaped members (903) may be selectively removed from an assembly so as to provide a desired weight distribution.



1. Apparatus for supporting a solar energy collection device, wherein:
said apparatus is substantially wedge-shaped with a base for contacting a roof surface and an inclined front face for supporting said device; and
said apparatus is configured such that the total weight of the apparatus is adjustable so as to apply loading on said roof to withstand wind uplift forces.



2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus includes a compartment for receiving ballast.


3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said compartment is configured to receive a particulate material or a liquid as ballast.


4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is constructed from a moulded plastics material.


5. Apparatus according to claim 1, including a passageway that extends into the apparatus from said front face.


6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of wedge-shaped devices are provided and the total weight of the apparatus is adjusted by adjusting the number of wedge-shaped devices present in an installation.


7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said wedge-shaped devices are connected together by connecting rails.


8. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said members are moulded in rubber or plastic.


9. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said rubber or plastic is substantially solid.


10. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the solar energy collecting device is a photo-voltaic device.


11. Apparatus according to claim 1, including a back face between said base and said front face, wherein a channel is formed in said back face.


12. Apparatus mountable on a roof for collecting solar energy, comprising:
a solar energy collection device;
a mounting plate for receiving said solar energy collection device; and
a plurality of substantially wedge-shaped supporting devices for supporting said mounting plate at an inclined angle, wherein said supporting devices have a total weight that is adjustable so as to apply an appropriate loading on said roof.



13. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said solar energy collection is a solar thermal device or a photovoltaic device, possibly consisting of crystalline cells secured in a panel device or consisting of thin film amorphous technology.


14. Apparatus according to claim 12, including cables for connecting a plurality of photo-voltaic devices, each supported by respective supporting devices.


15. A method of applying solar energy collection devices to a flat or modestly sloping roof, comprising the steps of:
applying a plurality of substantially wedge-shaped devices upon said roof in an appropriate north-south orientation;
adjusting the total weight of said wedge-shaped devices so as to apply an appropriate loading on said roof;
securing a mounting plate with solar energy collection device incorporated to said adjusted devices or positioned upon said mounting plate.



16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the applying of said devices makes use of integral compasses to determine said north-south orientation.


17. A method according to claim 15, wherein said adjusting of total weight involves adding material to at least one of said devices.


18. A method according to claim 17, wherein particulate matter or a liquid is used for adding weight.


19. A method according to claim 15, wherein an electrical component is added to at least one of wedge-shaped devices.


20. A method according to claim 19, wherein said added electrical component is a junction box.


21. A method according to claim 15, wherein the adjusting of total weight involves removing material.


22. A method according to claim 21, wherein one or more of said wedge-shaped devices are removed from a plurality of connected devices.


23. A method according to claim 15, including the step of running cables through channels defined in back surfaces of said wedge-shaped devices.

