
A method of manufacturing a photovoltaic roofing tile for installing on a roof surface and converting solar energy into electrical energy includes the steps of forming a generally flexible photovoltaic laminate, the laminate including a photovoltaic layer including plurality of electrically interconnected photovoltaic cells and a photovoltaic circuit electrically connecting the photovoltaic cells, inserting the laminate into a tile mold and injecting a molten thermoplastic material into the tile mold to form and fixedly attached a tile base to the laminate.



1. A method of manufacturing a photovoltaic roofing tile for installing on a roof surface for converting solar energy into electrical energy, the method comprising:
a) forming a generally flexible photovoltaic laminate, the laminate including a photovoltaic layer including plurality of electrically interconnected photovoltaic cells and a photovoltaic circuit electrically connecting the photovoltaic cells;
b) inserting the laminate into a tile mold; and
c) injecting a molten thermoplastic material into the tile mold to form and fixedly attached a tile base to the laminate.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein the laminate formed in step a) is formed via a vacuum lamination process.


3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step b-2) holding the laminate to a side of the tile mold using a vacuum.


4. The method of claim 1, wherein one of a carrier sheet and a platen is textured during step a) forming a textured surface on the laminate.


5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of d) pre-heating the laminate prior to step b).


6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of d) mounting a back sheet onto the laminate prior to step b).


7. The method of claim 7 wherein the back sheet layer is constructed of polypropylene.


8. A method of manufacturing a photovoltaic roofing tile for installing on a roof surface and converting solar energy into electrical energy, the method comprising:
a) forming a generally flexible photovoltaic laminate via a vacuum laminate process, the laminate including a photovoltaic layer including plurality of electrically interconnected photovoltaic cells capable of receiving solar energy and a photovoltaic circuit electrically connecting the photovoltaic cells, first and second laminate sheets sandwiching and sealing the photovoltaic layer;
b) mounting a back sheet to the laminate;
c) inserting the laminate into a tile mold; and
d) injecting a molten thermoplastic into a second side of the tile mold to form a base tile, the thermoplastic contacting and fixing the base tile to the back sheet.



9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of e) pre-heating the laminate prior to step c).


10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of e) drawing the laminate to a first side of the mold using a vacuum prior to step d).


11. The method of claim 8 wherein the back sheet layer is constructed of polypropylene. 

