
Methods and devices are provided for improved large-scale solar installations. In one embodiment, a photovoltaic module is provided comprising of a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer. The module includes a first electrical lead extending outward from an edge of the module from between the transparent module layer and the backside module layer, wherein the lead is couplable to an adjacent module without passing the lead through a central junction box or an opening in either the transparent module layer or the backside module layer. The module may include a second electrical lead extending outward from an edge of the module from between the transparent module layer and the backside module layer, wherein the lead is couplable to another adjacent module without passing the lead through a central junction box or an opening in either the transparent module layer or the backside module layer.



1. A photovoltaic module comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer;
a first edge-exiting electrical lead extending outward from an edge of the module; and
a second edge-exiting electrical lead extending outward from an edge of the module.



2. The module of claim 1 wherein the first edge-exiting electrical lead extends outward from the module from between the transparent module layer and the backside module layer, wherein the first edge-exiting electrical lead is couplable to an adjacent module without passing the lead through a central junction box; and
a second edge-exiting electrical lead extending outward from the module from between the transparent module layer and the backside module layer, wherein the second edge-exiting electrical lead is couplable to another adjacent module without passing the lead through a central junction box.



3. The module of claim 1 wherein the edge exiting leads are each housed within an edge mounted edge housing that contains only one connection directly connected to at least one cell in the module.


4. The module of claim 1 wherein the edge exiting leads are each housed within an edge mounted edge housing that contains only one connection directly connected to only one cell in the module.


5. The module of claim 1 wherein the edge exiting leads are each housed within an edge mounted edge housing that connects to a wire exiting through an opening in the backside module layer.


6. The module of claim 1 wherein the module is a frameless module.


7. The module of claim 2 wherein the backside module layer, transparent module layer, and the cells therebetween are coupled together without a frame extending around a perimeter of the module layers.


8. The module of claim 1 comprises a glass-glass module.


9. The module of claim 1 further comprising:
a first edge housing for securing the first electrical lead to the module and providing a moisture barrier at a first electrical lead exit from the module;
a second edge housing for securing the second electrical lead to the module and providing a moisture barrier at a second electrical lead exit from the module.



10. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing each define an interior space configured to accommodate encapsulant material injected into the space to form the moisture barrier.


11. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing each have an opening allowing encapsulant material to be injected into the connecter to form a moisture barrier after the connecter is mounted onto the module.


12. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing each have a surface that engages the transparent module layer and a second surface that engages the backside module layer.


13. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing engages only one of the following: the transparent module layer or the backside module layer.


14. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing are each sized to receive a flat wire entering the edge housing and couple the flat wire to a round wiring exiting the edge housing.


15. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing are each sized to receive a flat aluminum-based wire entering the edge housing and couple the flat aluminum-based wire to a round copper-based wire exiting the edge housing.


16. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing are spaced apart from one another, with the first edge housing closer to one end of the module and the second edge housing to an opposite end of the module.


17. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing are each positioned on the module to cover a corner of the module.


18. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing extend no more than about 1 cm above the transparent module layer.


19. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing extend no more than about 0.5 cm below the backside module layer.


20. The module of claim 9 wherein the first edge housing and the second edge housing are mounting in a manner along the edges of the module to allow for substantially flush stacking of modules against one another.


21-24. (canceled)


25. The module of claim 1 further comprising a pottant layer between the photovoltaic cells and either the transparent module layer or the backside layer, wherein the pottant layer comprises of one or more of the following: ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA), polyvinyl butyral (PVB), ionomer, silicone, thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU), thermoplastic elastomer polyolefin (TPO), tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene vinylidene (THV), fluorinated ethylene-propylene (FEP), saturated rubber, butyl rubber, thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), flexibilized epoxy, epoxy, amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (PET), urethane acrylic, acrylic, other fluoroelastomers, or combinations thereof.


26-30. (canceled)


31. The module of claim 1 wherein the first electrical lead or the second electrical lead has a length no more than about 30 cm.


32. The module of claim 1 wherein the module is in landscape configuration defined by a long dimension and a short dimension, wherein the first electrical lead extends from the module along the short dimension.


33. The module of claim 1 wherein the module is in landscape configuration defined by a long dimension and a short dimension, wherein the first electrical lead extends from the module along the long dimension, closer to one end of the module than a middle of the module.


34. The module of claim 1 wherein the first electrical lead extends outward from one edge of the module and the second electrical lead extend outward from the same edge of the module.


35. The module of claim 1 wherein the first electrical lead extends outward from along one edge of the module and the second electrical lead extends outward from a different edge of the module.


36. The module of claim 1 wherein a first cell in the module comprises a dummy cell of non-photovoltaic material to facilitate electrical connection to other solar cells in the module.


37. The module of claim 1 wherein a flat, inline bypass diode takes the place of one of the cells in the module.


38-43. (canceled)


44. An edge housing for use with a solar module, the edge housing comprising:
a housing defining an opening for receiving an electrical lead from the module; and
a module interface surface on the housing configured to mount the housing along an edge of the module;
wherein the housing defines a cavity for receiving encapsulant to create a waterproof seal with the module and the electrical lead.



45. The edge housing of claim 44 wherein the housing comprises of an upper part and a lower part separable from one another.


46-68. (canceled)


69. A method comprising:
providing a plurality of frameless, rigid photovoltaic modules;
mounting a plurality of edge housings over electrical leads extending outward from the edges of the modules, wherein all electrical leads on one module exits the module without passing through the same edge housing and without passing through a central junction box.



70-81. (canceled)


82. A photovoltaic module comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer;
a first electrical lead extending outward from the module; and
a second electrical lead extending outward from the module,
a first edge housing the first electrical lead;
a second edge housing the second electrical lead, wherein the second edge housing is spaced apart from the first edge housing;
wherein at least one of the leads exits through an opening in the backside module layer to enter the edge housing. 


