
A mounting system is provided for an array of solar modules. The mounting system includes one or more rail assemblies that extend lengthwise in a first direction to support a plurality of solar modules that comprise the array. Each of the one or more rail assemblies may be configured to compress in order to retain an edge section of one or more of the plurality of solar modules in an operable position. A conductive element may be positioned to bond the edge section of at least one of the plurality of solar modules with at least a section of the rail assembly that retains that edge section in the operable position, so as to form a conductive path for electrical current.



1. A mounting system for an array of solar modules, the mounting system comprising:
one or more rail assemblies that extend lengthwise in a first direction to support a plurality of solar modules that comprise the array, wherein each of the one or more rail assemblies is configured to compress in order to retain an edge section of one or more of the plurality of solar modules in an operable position;
a conductive element positioned to bond the edge section of at least one of the plurality of solar modules with at least a section of the rail assembly that retains that edge section in the operable position, so as to form a conductive path for electrical current that extends from the edge section to at least the one or more rail assemblies.



2. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more rail assemblies includes (i) a top section and a bottom section that combine to form a receiving structure that holds a frame of a corresponding solar module, and (ii) a compression element that compresses the top section to the bottom section to retain the frame in the operable position, and wherein the conductive element is coupled to or integrated with a surface of the receiving structure to form a bond with the frame of the solar module when the top section and the bottom section are compressed.


3. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the conductive element includes at least a thickness that extends between the surface of the receiving structure and the frame of the solar module, and wherein the thickness of the conductive element on the surface of the receiving structure is shaped to include a peak and a trough.


4. The mounting system of claim 3, wherein the conductive element corresponds to a clip with one or more protruding features.


5. The mounting system of claim 3, wherein the conductive element corresponds to a continuous or semi-continuous strip with one or more protruding features.


6. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the conductive element is an integrated feature of the receiving structure.


7. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the conductive element is an integrated feature of the frame of the solar module.


8. A rail assembly for a mounting system that supports an array of solar modules, the rail assembly comprising:
a top section;
a bottom section that is combinable with the top section to extend lengthwise in a first direction;
wherein at least one of the top section and the bottom section are structured so that a receiving structure is provided for receiving an edge section of a frame of a solar module in an operative position when the top section and the bottom section are combined;
a compression mechanism that is usable to compress the top section and the bottom section when the top and bottom section are combined, into retaining and supporting the edge section of the frame of the solar modules in an operable position within the receiving structure;
a conductive element positionable on at least one of the top section and bottom section to form an electrical bond with the edge section of the frame of the solar module, the conductive element enabling a conductive path for electrical current.



9. The rail assembly of claim 8, wherein the conductive element includes at least a thickness that extends between a surface of the receiving structure and the frame of the solar module, and wherein the thickness of the conductive element on the receiving structure is shaped to include a peak and a trough.


10. The rail assembly of claim 8,
wherein the surface of the receiving structure corresponds to a ledge, and wherein the conductive element is unitarily formed with at least a portion of the ledge.



11. A mounted solar module assembly comprising:
a plurality of solar modules;
one or more rail assemblies that extend lengthwise in a first direction to support a plurality of solar modules that comprise the array, wherein each of the one or more rail assemblies is configured to compress in order to retain an edge section of one or more of the plurality of solar modules in an operable position to receive sun light on an underlying structure;
one or more strut runners that extend lengthwise in a second direction that is mostly orthogonal to the first direction, the one or more strut runners supporting the one or more rail assemblies on the underlying structure;
one or more conductive elements, each conductive element being positioned to bond the edge section of at least one of the plurality of solar modules with at least a section of the rail assembly that retains that edge section in the operable position, so as to form a conductive path for electrical current that extends from the edge section to at least the one or more rail assemblies and to the one or more strut runners; and
wherein the conductive path formed in part by each of the one or more conductive elements is either electrically bonded or combined with one other component for carrying current resulting from the electrical event away from the assembly.



12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of solar modules include multiple solar modules that are positioned in a column so as to use one or more rail assemblies common to each of the plurality of solar modules, and wherein each of the multiple solar modules include the conductive element that forms the electrical bond between the frame of the solar module and the common rail assembly.


13. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of solar modules include a first set of solar modules and a second set of solar modules that are positioned in a row, so that (i) the solar modules of the first set use one or more rail assemblies common to each of the other solar modules in the first set, (ii) the solar modules of the second set use one or more rail assemblies common to each of the other solar modules in the second set, and (iii) at least one of the rail assemblies used by the first set of solar modules is common to at least one of the rail assemblies used by the second set of solar modules;
wherein (i) each of solar modules of the first set include the conductive element that forms the electrical bond between the frame of the solar module and the rail assembly common to the first set, (ii) each of solar modules of the second set include the conductive element that forms the electrical bond between the frame of the solar module and the rail assembly common to the second set;
wherein the conductive path formed in part by at least some of the one or more conductive elements provided with the first set of solar modules and with the second set of solar modules each extend to one of the one or more strut runners.



14. The assembly of claim of claim 11, wherein each of the one or more rail assemblies includes (i) a top section and a bottom section that combine to form a receiving structure that holds a frame of a corresponding solar module, and (ii) a compression element that compresses the top section to the bottom section to retain the frame in the operable position, and wherein the conductive element is coupled to or integrated with a surface of the receiving structure to form a bond with the frame of the solar module when the top section and the bottom section are compressed.


15. The assembly of claim of claim 11, wherein the conductive element includes at least a thickness that extends between the surface of the receiving structure and the frame of the solar module, and wherein the thickness of the conductive element on the surface of the receiving structure is shaped to include a peak and a trough.


16. The assembly of claim of claim 15, wherein the conductive element corresponds to a clip with one or more protruding features.


17. The assembly of claim of claim 15, wherein the conductive element corresponds to a continuous or semi-continuous strip with one or more protruding features.


18. The assembly of claim of claim 11, wherein the conductive element is an integrated feature of the receiving structure.


19. The assembly of claim of claim 11, wherein the conductive element is an integrated feature or the frame of the solar module.


20. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the one or more strut runners provide a common bonding point to ground the solar array.

