
A ground fault detector interrupter (GFDI) is described. The GFDI configured for use with a DC power supply and comprises the following elements. A ground current path is provided for coupling a ground terminal of the DC power supply and a system ground. A grounding switch is placed in the ground current path. A current detector is configured to detect a ground current in the ground current path. A controller is configured to compare the ground current with a predefined current set point and output a fault indication signal if the ground current exceeds the predefined current set point. The fault indication signal results in the grounding switch being open.



1. A ground fault detector interrupter (GFDI) configured for use with a direct current (DC) power supply, the GFDI comprising:
a ground current path coupling a ground terminal of the DC power supply and an system ground;
a grounding switch placed in the ground current path;
a current detector configured to detect a ground current in the ground current path; and
a controller configured to compare the ground current with a predefined current set point and output a fault indication signal if the ground current exceeds the predefined current set point, the fault indication signal resulting in the grounding switch being open.



2. The GFDI of claim 1, further comprising a sensor failure monitor configured to monitor operation of the current sensor.


3. The GFDI of claim 2, wherein the sensor monitor monitors the operation of the current sensor by injecting a predefined additional current into the ground current at predefined intervals.


4. The GFDI of claim 1, further comprising a relay and switch monitor for monitoring operation of the relays and the grounding switch, and providing feedback to the controller.


5. The GFDI of claim 1, further comprising a reset input for enabling an operator to reset the GFDI.


6. The GFDI of claim 5, wherein activation of the reset opens the grounding switch.


7. The GFDI of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to inhibit the likelihood of a false fault indication signal by waiting a predefined time period and rechecking the comparison between the ground current and the current set point before outputting the fault indication.


8. The GFDI of claim 1 wherein the DC power supply is a photovoltaic array.


9. The GFDI of claim 1, wherein the system ground is an enclosure ground.


10. The GFDI of claim 1, wherein the controller is a microcontroller.


11. The GFDI of claim 1 wherein each element of the GFDI includes a redundant circuit. 

