
Clamps for mounting frameless, glass paneled, thin-film solar modules on slant-roof, flat roof, or ground-mounted solar systems. The clamps of the present invention can be also adapted to use with existing roof rail systems or other mounting brackets.



1. An apparatus for mounting frameless solar panels comprising:
an upper plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having an aperture proximal to a first end;
a lower plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having an aperture proximal to a first end;
a spacer having a top plane, a bottom plane, a first vertical surface and a second vertical surface; wherein the spacer has a centrally located aperture therethrough;
a fastener system;
a plurality of cushions;
a bracket having a long axis with a top plane and a bottom plane, wherein the top plane is in contact with the bottom plane of the lower plate; and
a rail insert fastener system,
whereby the aperture in the upper plate, spacer, and lower plate align to form a passage.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bottom plane of the upper plate and the upper plane of the lower plate have a groove configured to the top plane and the bottom plane of the spacer.


3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bracket has a long axis which terminates at a first notched end and a second notched end, wherein the first notched end is on the top plane and the second notched end is on the bottom plane of the long axis.


4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first notched end and the second notched end have an elongated opening parallel to the direction of the long axis of the bracket.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the brackets have assembly apertures on the long axis proximal to the first notched end and the second notched end.


6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fastener system comprises a nut and bolt, wherein the bolt of the fastener system traverses the aperture of the upper plate, lower plate, spacer and assembly aperture of the bracket.


7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the nut of the fastener system is in contact with the bottom plane of the bracket when a frameless solar panel is secured.


8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first end of the upper plate and the first end of the lower plate are aligned when a solar panel is secured.


9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bottom plan of the upper plate, the top plane of the lower plate and the first vertical surface have a cushion attached thereto.


10. An apparatus for mounting frameless solar panels comprising:
an upper plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having a centrally located aperture;
a lower plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having centrally located aperture;
a spacer having a top plane, a bottom plane, a first vertical surface and a second vertical surface; wherein the spacer has a centrally located aperture therethrough;
a rail insert fastener system; and
a plurality of cushions;
whereby the aperture in the upper plate, spacer, and lower plate align to form a passage.



11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the bottom plane of the upper plate and the upper plane of the lower plate have a groove configured to the top plane and the bottom plane of the spacer.


12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the bottom plan of the upper plate, the top plane of the lower plate and the first vertical surface have a cushion attached thereto.


13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rail insert fastener system comprises a fastener and an insert, wherein the fastener traverses the passage and is secured to the insert.


14. A process for mounting frameless solar panel modules comprising the steps of:
a. preparing a first solar module panel module comprising the steps of:
i. inserting a solar panel into an apparatus for mounting frameless solar panels wherein the apparatus comprises an upper plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having an aperture proximal to a first end, a lower plate having a top plane and a bottom plane having an aperture proximal to a first end, a spacer having a top plane, a bottom plane, a first vertical surface and a second vertical surface, wherein the spacer has a centrally located aperture therethrough, a fastener system, a plurality of cushions, a bracket having a long axis with a top plane and a bottom plane, wherein the bracket has a long axis which terminates at a first notched end and a second notched end, wherein the first notched end is on the top plane and the second notched end is on the bottom plane of the long axis, wherein the first notched end and the second notched end has an elongated opening in the direction of the long axis of the bracket, wherein the brackets have assembly apertures parallel to the long axis proximal to the first notched end and the second notched end, wherein the top plane is attached to the bottom plane of the lower plate and a rail insert fastener system, whereby the aperture in the upper plate, spacer, and lower plate align to form a passage,
ii. traversing the passage formed by the aperture in the upper plate, spacer, lower plate, and assembly aperture with a first member of the fastener system, and
iii. compressing the upper plate, the lower plate and the bracket by attachment of a second member of the fastener system to the first member of the fastener system;

b. aligning the assembly apertures of a first notched end of a bracket of the first module to a second notched end of a bracket of a second module prepared by step a;
c. traversing the elongated opening by a first member of the rail insert fastener system; and
d. securing the first notched end bracket of a first module to a second notched end of the second module by attachment of a second member of the rail insert fastener system within a rail.


