
A method and system to provide a distributed local energy production system with high-voltage DC bus is disclosed. In one embodiment, a system comprises a management unit to be interconnected via a network bus to a set of link modules, each link module coupled to a separate local energy production unit, each link module to include a Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) step-up converter and a parameter monitoring unit to produce parameter data for the respective local energy production unit, and the local energy production units to be coupled to a high voltage power line to deliver produced electrical energy to a consumer of the energy; and the management unit to receive measured parameters from the link modules, and to send control signals to link modules to provide individual operational control of the local energy production units, the management unit to be coupled to one or more separate computers to provide the computers with access to the parameter data and control of the local energy production units.



1. A system, comprising:
a management unit to be interconnected via a network to a set of link modules of a corresponding set of local energy production units coupled to a direct current power bus, wherein each link module is to include
a Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) step-up converter to provide electrical energy generated by a respective local energy production unit at a first voltage onto the power bus at a second voltage higher than the first voltage, and
a parameter monitoring unit to produce parameter data for the respective local energy production unit; and

wherein the management unit is to receive measured parameters from the link modules, and to send control signals to the link modules to provide individual operational control of the local energy production units; and
wherein the management unit is to be coupled to one or more separate computers to provide the one or more computers with access to the parameter data and control of the local energy production units.



2. The system of claim 1, wherein the network and the power bus are joined on a common wire.


3. The system of claim 2, wherein the power bus delivers electrical energy to a grid-tied inverter.


4. The system of claim 2, wherein the management unit comprises a web server.


5. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the local energy production units is a photovoltaic panel.


6. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the local energy production units is at least one of: a wind turbine, a fuel cell, and a hydroelectric turbine.


7. The system of claim 2, wherein the MPPT step-up converter is to decouple a performance of the respective local energy production unit from separate local energy production units coupled to the power bus.


8. The system of claim 2, wherein the parameter data received by the management unit from the respective local energy production unit comprises one or more of temperature and panel identification code.


9. The system of claim 8, wherein the management unit is to transmit power-on and power-off signals to the link modules via the power bus to power-on and power-off individual local energy production units.


10. The system of claim 9, wherein the respective local energy production unit comprise a local power-on and power-off control.


11. The system of claim 2, wherein the management unit is coupled to World Wide Web (WWW), and further includes a web page accessible via the WWW to provide access to one or more of parameter data, unit performance, unit failure, system efficiency, power generation information, and individual control of the local energy production units.


12. The system of claim 2, wherein the power bus comprises a set of conductors to transmit data and control signals while delivering power.


13. The system of claim 2, wherein the management unit is to receive parameter data from one or more consumers of energy.


14. The system of claim 13, wherein the management unit is to control delivery of electrical energy to one or more consumers of energy based on parameter data received from one or more consumers of energy.


15. A method comprising:
receiving parameter data by a management unit from a set of set of link modules of a corresponding set of local energy production units coupled to a direct current power bus, wherein each link module includes
a Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) step-up converter to provide electrical energy generated by a respective local energy production unit at a first voltage onto the power bus at a second voltage higher than the first voltage, and
a parameter monitoring unit to produce parameter data for the respective local energy production unit; and

sending control signals from the management unit to the link modules; and
communicating by the management unit with one or more separate computers to provide the one or more computers with access to the parameter data and control of the local energy production units.



16. The method of claim 15, wherein the parameter data is received via the power bus.


17. The method of claim 16, wherein the power bus delivers electrical energy to at least one of: a battery storage unit, a grid-tied inverter, a non-grid-tied inverter, a plug-in hybrid automobile, and a car.


18. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
performing a real time trading of power based on supply and demand for power.



19. The method of claim 16, wherein the (MPPT) step-up converter decouples a performance of the respective local energy production unit from separate local energy production units coupled to the power bus.


20. A computer readable medium having stored thereon a set of instructions, which when executed by a management unit cause the management unit to perform a method comprising:
receiving parameter data by the management unit from a set of set of link modules of a corresponding set of local energy production units coupled to a direct current power bus, wherein each link module includes
a Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) step-up converter to provide electrical energy generated by a respective local energy production unit at a first voltage onto the power bus at a second voltage higher than the first voltage, and
a parameter monitoring unit to produce parameter data for the respective local energy production unit; and

sending control signals from the management unit to the link modules; and
communicating by the management unit with one or more separate computers to provide the one or more computers with access to the parameter data and control of the local energy production units. 


