
A support member for a solar panel is provided comprising a base member having first and second surfaces and first and second sides, the first surface defining a recess configured to receive the solar panel. The first side of the support member defines a first flange extending therefrom that is flush with the first surface of the base member and the second side of the support member defines a second flange extending therefrom that is flush with the second surface of the base member.



1. A support member for a solar panel, comprising:
a base member having first and second surfaces and first and second sides, said first surface defining a recess configured to receive the solar panel, said base member being formed of polymer concrete.



2. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said recess is configured such that the solar panel can be positioned within said recess with relatively insubstantial gaps between the sides of said recess and the sides of the solar panel and with the front of the solar panel being substantially flush with said first surface of said base member.


3. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said first surface defines at least one aperture within said recess structured to provide space for air to circulate about the back of the solar panel and to reduce the weight of said base member.


4. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said at least one aperture comprises at least one slot.


5. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said at least one aperture comprises at least one circular opening.


6. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said first surface of said base member defines a plurality of raised members within said recess that are structured to engage the solar panel and to provide space between said first surface of said base member and the solar panel.


7. A support member according to claim 6 wherein at least one of said plurality of raised members comprises at least one elongate rib.


8. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said first side of said base member defines a first flange extending therefrom that is flush with said first surface of said base member and wherein said second side of said base member defines a second flange extending therefrom that is flush with said second surface of said base member.


9. A support member according to claim 8 wherein said first flange defines a first lip at the distal end of said first flange and a groove between said first lip and said first side of said base member and said second flange defines a second lip at the distal end of said second flange and a groove between said second lip and said second side of said base member.


10. A support member according to claim 1 wherein said first surface of said base member defines a second recess configured to receive a junction box, said second recess defining an aperture configured to receive the electrical wiring of the solar panel and to provide space for air to circulate about the back of the solar panel.


11. A solar panel array, comprising:
at least two solar panels;
at least two support members, each of said at least two support members comprising a base member having first and second surfaces and first and second sides, said first surface of each of said base members defining a recess configured to receive one of said at least two solar panels, said first side of each of said base members defining a first flange extending therefrom that is flush with said first surface of the corresponding one of said base members, said second side of each of said base members defining a second flange extending therefrom that is flush with said second surface of the corresponding one of said base members; and
wherein said at least two support members are positioned adjacent to one another such that said first flange of one of said at least two support members overlaps said second flange of the adjacent one of said at least two support members.



12. A solar array according to claim 11 wherein said first surface of each of said base members defines a plurality of raised members within said recess that are structured to engage the back of said one of said at least two solar panels and to provide space between said first surface of each of said base members and the back of said one of said at least two solar panels.


13. A solar array according to claim 12 wherein at least one of said plurality of raised members comprises at least one elongate rib.


14. A solar array according to claim 11 wherein said first flange of each of said base members defines a first lip at the distal end of said first flange and a groove between said first lip and said first side of the corresponding one of said base members and said second flange of each of said base members defines a second lip at the distal end of said second flange and a groove between said second lip and said second side of the corresponding one of said base members.


15. A solar array according to claim 11 where in each of said at least two support members is formed of polymer concrete.


16. A solar array according to claim 11 wherein said recess of each of said base members is configured such that said one of said at least two solar panels can be positioned within said recess with relatively insubstantial gaps between the sides of said recess and the sides of said one of said at least two solar panels and with the front of said one of said at least two solar panels being substantially flush with said first surface of the corresponding one of said base members.


17. A solar array according to claim 17 wherein said first surface of each of said base members defining at least one aperture within said recess to enable air to circulate about the back of said one of said at least two solar panels and to reduce the weight of the corresponding one of said at least two support members.


18. A solar array according to claim 17 wherein said at least one aperture comprises at least one slot.


19. A solar array according to claim 17 wherein said at least one aperture comprises at least one circular opening.


20. A solar array according to claim 11 further comprising at least two junction boxes and wherein said first surface of each of said base members defines a second recess configured to receive one of said at least two junction boxes, said second recess defining an aperture configured to receive the electrical wiring of said one of said at least two solar panels and to provide space for air to circulate about the back of said one of said at least two solar panels.


21. A method of forming a support member for a solar panel, comprising:
providing a first mold defining a plurality of protuberances;
encasing the first mold with a form;
filling the first mold with liquid polymeric material and aggregate;
positioning a second mold on the first mold within the form;
urging the first and second molds together;
curing the polymeric material to form a support member, the support member comprising a base member having first and second surfaces and first and second sides, said first surface of said base member defining a recess configured to receive a solar panel; and
removing the support member from the first and second molds. 


