
A method and modular assembly provide shade and generate electricity using photovoltaic cells. In the method, a kit includes a plurality of columns, a truss assembly, a rack, and a plurality of photovoltaic cells for converting solar energy into electricity. First, four columns are erected at a distance from one another to define an area. Then, the truss assembly is suspended between the columns. Thereafter, the rack is mounted to the truss assembly to form an open roof. To enclose the roof, the photovoltaic cells are arranged on the rack to block sunlight to shade the area, while converting the sunlight to electricity.



1. A modular assembly for providing shade and for generating electricity comprising:
a plurality of columns, with the columns distanced from one another to define an area;
a truss assembly dimensioned for suspension between adjacent columns;
a rack mounted to the truss assembly; and
a plurality of photovoltaic cells for converting solar energy into electricity, with said plurality of cells being supported by the rack to block sunlight to shade the area.



2. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the columns and the truss assembly form conduits for cables electrically connected to the photovoltaic cells.


3. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the rack and photovoltaic cells are inclined by 10째.


4. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the rack defines a plurality of sections, and wherein each section and the photovoltaic cells positioned on each section are inclined by 20째.


5. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the columns are formed from trussed legs.


6. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the area defined by the columns is a carport for shading a car.


7. An assembly as recited in claim 6 further comprising means for connecting the car to the photovoltaic cells to charge the car with electricity.


8. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein each leg is identical to each other leg.


9. An assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein the columns are distanced from one another to define a plurality of areas, wherein the truss assembly comprises a plurality of truss assemblies dimensioned for suspension between adjacent columns, wherein the rack comprises a plurality of racks, with each rack mounted to a respective truss assembly, and wherein the plurality of cells are supported by the plurality of racks to block sunlight to shade the areas.


10. A kit for constructing modules for providing shade and for generating electricity comprising:
a plurality of columns, with the columns being positionable on the ground and distanced from one another to define an area;
a truss assembly dimensioned for suspension between adjacent columns;
a rack for mounting on the truss assembly, with said rack providing an open roof for the area; and
a plurality of photovoltaic cells for converting solar energy into electricity, with said plurality of cells being supportable by the rack to close the roof and block sunlight to shade the area.



11. A kit as recited in claim 10 wherein the columns and the truss assembly form conduits, with said kit further comprising a cable for passage through the conduits for electrical connection to the photovoltaic cells.


12. A kit as recited in claim 11 wherein the area defined by the columns is a carport for shading a car, and wherein the cable can be electrically connected to the car to charge the car with electricity.


13. A kit as recited in claim 10 wherein the plurality of photovoltaic cells are provided in a plurality of solar panels.


14. A method for providing shade and for generating electricity comprising the steps of:
providing a kit including a plurality of columns, a truss assembly, a rack, and a plurality of photovoltaic cells for converting solar energy into electricity;
erecting four columns at a distance from one another to define an area;
suspending the truss assembly between the columns;
mounting the rack to the truss assembly to form an open roof; and
arranging the plurality of photovoltaic cells on the rack to close the roof and block sunlight to shade the area.



15. A method as recited in claim 14 wherein the columns and the truss assembly form conduits that are aligned as a result of the erecting and suspending steps, wherein the kit further includes a cable, and wherein the method further includes the step of positioning the cable in the conduits and electrically connecting the cable to the photovoltaic cells.


16. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the area defined by the columns is a carport for shading a car.


17. A method as recited in claim 16 further comprising the step of electrically connecting the car to the cable to charge the car with electricity.


18. A method as recited in claim 14 wherein the rack defines a plurality of sections inclined by 20째 and wherein the arranging step is accomplished by putting segments of photovoltaic cells on each section.


19. A method as recited in claim 14 wherein the truss assembly supports the rack at an incline of 10째.


20. A method as recited in claim 14 wherein the kit includes a plurality of truss assemblies and a plurality of racks, and wherein the method further comprises the steps of:
erecting a pair of columns at a distance from one another and from two erected columns to define an additional area between the four respective columns;
suspending a truss assembly between the four respective columns;
mounting a rack to the truss assembly between the four respective columns to form an open roof; and
arranging photovoltaic cells on the respective rack to close the respective roof and block sunlight to shade the additional area.


