
A method and system for determining a net energy consumption are described. Information is received descriptive of a power output generated by at least one source of renewable energy (1) associated with a user (100). Further information describes power consumption at premises (102) associated with the user and located remotely from the at least one source of renewable energy (1). A difference is determined between a value of the power consumption and a value of the power output. An energy bill may be generated dependent on the difference.



1. A method for determining a net energy consumption comprising:
receiving information descriptive of a power output generated by at least one source of renewable energy associated with a user;
receiving information descriptive of power consumption at premises associated with the user, wherein the premises are located remotely from the at least one source of renewable energy; and
determining a difference between a value of the power consumption and a value of the power output.



2. A method according to claim 1 comprising:
generating an energy bill dependent on the determined difference.



3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the source of renewable energy generates electrical power from solar energy.


4. A method according to claim 1 comprising:
receiving a first market rate for the power output; and
receiving a second market rate for the power consumption,

wherein the difference is determined dependent on the first market rate and the second market rate.


5. A method according to claim 4 wherein at least one of the first market rate and the second market rate vary with time.


6. An apparatus for determining a net energy consumption comprising:
means for receiving information descriptive of a power output generated by at least one source of renewable energy associated with a user;
means for receiving information descriptive of power consumption at premises associated with the user and located remotely from the at least one source of renewable energy; and
means for determining a difference between a value of the power consumption and a value of the power output.



7. A computer program product comprising machine-readable program code recorded on a machine-readable recording medium for controlling the operation of a data processing apparatus on which the program code executes to perform a method for determining a net energy consumption comprising:
receiving information descriptive of a power output generated by at least one source of renewable energy associated with a user;
receiving information descriptive of power consumption at premises associated with the user and located remotely from the at least one source of renewable energy; and
determining a difference between a value of the power consumption and a value of the power output.



8. A system for remotely generating electrical power from solar energy comprising
a plurality of units for generating electrical power from solar energy, said units being associated with at least one user;
a monitoring system arranged to measure a power output of said plurality of units and to apportion the measured power output to the at least one user;
a data output to send data descriptive of the apportioned power output to offset a power consumption at premises associated with the at least one user and located remote from said plurality of units.



9. A system for supplying electrical power comprising:
a plurality of units for generating electrical power from solar energy, said units being associated with at least one user;
a first monitoring system arranged to measure a power output of said plurality of units and to apportion the measured power output to the at least one user;
a data output to send data descriptive of the apportioned power output;
a power distribution system configured to supply electrical power to one or more premises associated with the at least one user, the premises being located remote from the plurality of units;
a second monitoring system arranged to measure a power consumption at the one or more premises; and
an accounting system operable to determine an energy credit or debit for the at least one user based on an offset between the measured power consumption and the apportioned power output.



10. A system according to claim 9 wherein the electrical power generated by the plurality of units is supplied to a second power distribution system different to the power distribution network.

