
A method for quantifying performance of a power generating system is provided. The method includes empirically determining an actual relationship between input of an uncontrollable resource and power output of the power generating system. The method also includes determining a desired relationship between input of an uncontrollable resource and power output of the power generating system. The method further includes comparing the actual relationship to the desired relationship. The method also includes determining a plurality of financial parameters for the power generating system based on the comparison.



1. A method for quantifying performance of a power generating system comprising:
empirically determining an actual relationship between input of an uncontrollable resource and power output of the power generating system;
determining a desired relationship between input of an uncontrollable resource and power output of the power generating system;
comparing the actual relationship to the desired relationship; and
determining a plurality of financial parameters for the power generating system based on the comparison.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the actual relationship comprises measuring an overall output power with respect to a plurality of input parameters of the power generating system.


3. The method of claim 2, wherein the input parameters comprise wind speed, air density, wind direction, temperature and humidity of air for a wind power generating system.


4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of financial parameters comprises applying a bonus or a penalty depending upon a difference between the actual relationship and the desired relationship.


5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of financial parameters comprises determining a monetary payment or an equivalent power depending upon a difference between the actual relationship and the desired relationship.


6. A system for evaluating a power generating system comprising:
at least one sensor configured to measure a plurality of input parameters and output power of the power generating system, the input parameters including a parameter representative of an uncontrollable resource; and
processing circuitry configured to:
compare an empirically determined actual relationship between input of the uncontrollable resource and power output of the power generating system to a desired relationship therebetween; and
determine a financial parameter based upon the comparison.




7. The system of claim 6, wherein the actual relationship includes a power curve relating the uncontrollable resource to actual power output of the power generating system.


8. The system of claim 6, wherein the power generating system comprises a wind power generating system or a solar power generating system or a hydro power generating system.


9. The system of claim 6, wherein the input parameters comprise wind speed, air density, wind direction, temperature and humidity of air for a wind power generating system.


10. The system of claim 6, wherein the financial parameter comprises a bonus or a penalty depending upon a difference between the actual relationship and the desired relationship.


11. The system of claim 10, wherein the bonus or penalty is attributed to deviations not caused by natural deviations in the input parameters.


12. The system of claim 6, wherein the financial parameter comprises a monetary payment or an equivalent power depending upon a difference between the actual relationship and the desired relationship.


13. The system of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to generate a statement or a bill.


14. A method of monitoring a financial product designed for a power generating system comprising:
tracking fluctuation in one or more operating parameters of a power generating system that converts an uncontrollable natural resource to power output, the parameters including input of the uncontrollable natural resource; and
correcting the financial product based upon the tracking.



15. The method of claim 14, wherein the tracking comprises tracking fluctuation in cost of power production.


16. The method of claim 14, wherein the tracking comprises monitoring change in environmental conditions.


17. The method of claim 14, wherein correcting the financial product comprises adjusting a bonus.


18. The method of claim 14, wherein correcting the financial product comprises adjusting a penalty.


19. The method of claim 14, wherein correcting the financial product comprises adjusting value at risk for a seller of electricity.


20. The method of claim 14, wherein tracking fluctuation comprises comparing an empirically determined actual relationship between input of the uncontrollable natural resource and power output of the power generating system to a desired relationship therebetween.


21. The method of claim 20, further comprising determining the empirically determined actual relationship between input of the uncontrollable natural resource and power output of the power generating system during actual operation of the system.


22. A metering card for a power generating system, configured to:
maintain a database of a bonus or a penalty; and
calculate a consolidated bonus or penalty based upon the database at a pre-determined interval. 


