
A multi-circuit direct current monitor consists of a plurality of Hall Effect current sensors mounted on a printed circuit board oriented to sense the direct current (DC) flow from power generating devices such as solar arrays, output from the Hall Effect sensors connected to an analog to digital (A/D) converter which in turn is connected to a microprocessor. The multi-circuit direct current monitor continuously monitors instantaneous and average current values for each circuit as well as total instantaneous current and average current for all active circuits. The multi-circuit direct current monitor provides continuous communications via Modbus RTU as well as providing alarm outputs if one or more circuits deviates from the average output by a percentage greater than the user specified threshold for a user-defined period of time to detect failed or underperforming power output devices.



1. A system for monitoring current flow multiple DC circuits having an output comprised of:
(a) multiple current sensors mounted on a support positioned to allow a DC current to be sensed by each of the sensors each of which from a respective said circuit;
(b) a converter to convert the output from each sensor to a digital value;
(c) a monitoring device that receives said digital values and provides data indicating the total current flow through all of said current sensors and the individual current flow through a plurality of said sensors.



2. The system of claim 1 wherein said current sensors are Hall Effect current sensors.


3. The system of claim 2 wherein each of said DC circuits is from a solar panel.


4. The system of claim 3 wherein each of said current sensors are supported by a circuit board.


5. The system of claim 1 wherein said DC current passes through said sensor.


6. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said sensors communicates with another device using a single communications port.


7. The system of claim 6 wherein said communications port is a serial port.


8. The system of claim 7 wherein said serial port communicates with said another device using Rodbus TRU protocol.


9. The system of claim 8 wherein a combiner sums the outputs from said current sensors.


10. The system of claim 1 wherein said converter is an analog to digital converter.


11. The system of claim 10 wherein said current sensor has an analog output.


12. The system of claim 11 wherein said converter coverts said analog output to said digital value.


13. The system of claim 1 wherein a three phase output of said monitoring device provides power to switchgear.


14. The system of claim 13 wherein said switchgear provides power to said monitoring device.


15. The system of claim 1 wherein said system includes a pair of light outputs, the first of which provides a power indication, and the second of which provides a serial transmission indication.


16. The system of claim 1 wherein said system includes a set of three terminals, one of which is a positive, one of which is a negative, one of which is a shield, all three of which are used for connecting to a serial communications network.


17. The system of claim 1 wherein said monitoring device provides a Modbus protocol output.


18. The system of claim 17 wherein said monitoring device includes a plurality of registers, a plurality of said registers includes a value representative of an amperage for respective said sensors.


19. The system of claim 18 wherein a plurality of said registers includes calibration data for said sensors.


20. The system of claim 19 wherein at least one of said registers includes a serial number.


21. The system of claim 18 wherein a plurality of said registers includes up-time of said system.


22. The system of claim 18 wherein a plurality of said registers includes thresholds for alarm values.


23. The system of claim 22 wherein said system provides an alarm condition based upon said alarm values.


24. The system of claim 18 wherein at least one of said registers disables monitoring of amperage for one of said sensors.


25. The system of claim 18 wherein at least one of said registers disables outputting amperage data for one of said sensors.


26. The system of claim 18 wherein said amperage includes one of a short cycle and a long cycle.


27. The system of claim 26 wherein said amperage is a long cycle.


28. The system of claim 27 wherein at least one of said registers resets said long cycle.


29. A method for identifying solar panels comprised of:
(a) calculating a statistical measure of current flow provided by each of a plurality of sets of solar panels through respective sensors;
(b) establishing a low alarm threshold for each of said set of solar panels, wherein said threshold is selectable by a user based upon a change from said statistical measure;
(c) providing an alarm condition to indicate an alarm based upon said low alarm threshold for said plurality of sets of solar panels for a user defined duration.



30. The method of claim 29 wherein said sensors are Hall Effect current sensors.


31. The method of claim 30 wherein DC current passes through said sensor.


32. The method of claim 29 wherein each of said sensors communicates with another device using a single communications port.


33. The method of claim 32 wherein said communications port is a serial port.


34. The method of claim 33 wherein said serial port communicates with said another device using Rodbus TRU protocol.


35. A method for measuring alternating current in multiple circuits without using current transformers, comprised of:
(a) providing multiple hall effect current sensors mounted on a support oriented to allow an alternating current circuit from solar panels to pass through each of said sensors;
(b) providing an analog to digital converter to sample each of the circuits in sequence and convert an output analog signal from each sensor to a digital value;
(c) providing a serial RS485 Modbus RTU output that includes real time values of the total current flow through all said sensors and the current flow value through each hall effect sensor.


