
An apparatus for detecting an impairment of a solar array. The apparatus comprises an impairment detection module for performing a comparison of a power production profile and at least one reference profile, wherein the power production profile and the at least one reference profile are for at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray of the solar array, or at least one solar panel of the solar array. The apparatus determines, based on the comparison, whether the impairment exists.



1. An apparatus for detecting an impairment of a solar array, comprising:
an impairment detection module for performing a comparison of a power production profile and at least one reference profile and determining, based on the comparison, whether the impairment exists, wherein the power production profile and the at least one reference profile are for at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray of the solar array, or at least one solar panel of the solar array.



2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising:
a power production profile database for storing at least one power production profile, wherein the impairment detection module obtains the power production profile from the power production profile database; and
a reference profile database for storing the at least one reference profile, wherein the impairment detection module obtains the at least one reference profile from the reference profile database.



3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module generates the power production profile.


4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module generates the at least one reference profile.


5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module performs a comparison of the power production profile and at least one impairment profile and identifies, based on the comparison, a cause of the impairment.


6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising an impairment profile database for storing the at least one impairment profile, wherein the impairment detection module obtains the at least one impairment profile from the impairment profile database.


7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module generates a report of power production over time for the at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray, or at least one solar panel.


8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module generates an alert message upon determining that the impairment exists.


9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the impairment detection module automatically corrects the impairment upon determining that the impairment exists.


10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein an automatic correction comprises adjusting a Maximum Power Point (MPP) of the at least one solar panel to optimize power production of the at least one solar panel.


11. A method for detecting an impairment of a solar array, comprising:
comparing a power production data to at least one reference profile, wherein the power production data and the at least one reference profile are for at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray of the solar array, or at least one solar panel of the solar array; and
determining, from a result of the comparing, whether the impairment exists.



12. The method of claim 11 further comprising:
performing a comparison, upon determining that the impairment exists, of the power production data and at least one impairment profile; and
identifying, based on the comparison, a cause of the impairment.



13. The method of claim 11 wherein the determining step comprises identifying at least one statistically significant difference between the power production data and the at least one reference profile, wherein the at least one statistically significant difference indicates that the impairment exists.


14. The method of claim 11 further comprising generating, upon determining that the impairment exists, an alert message.


15. The method of claim 11 wherein a reference profile of the at least one reference profile is generated by:
obtaining operating data over a predetermined period of time for the at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray, or at least one solar panel; and
processing the operating data to obtain the reference profile.



16. The method of claim 15 wherein the operating data comprises at least one of an average power production or a usual power production over a specified period of time.


17. The method of claim 15 wherein the processing step comprises calculating at least one average of the operating data.


18. The method of claim 11 further comprising generating a report of power production over time for the at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray, or at least one solar panel.


19. The method of claim 11 further comprising automatically correcting the impairment upon determining that the impairment exists


20. The method of claim 19 wherein the automatically correcting comprises adjusting a Maximum Power Point (MPP) of the at least one solar panel to optimize power production of the at least one solar panel.


21. A system for detecting an impairment of a solar array comprising:
a solar array, wherein the solar array comprises a plurality of solar subarrays, and wherein each solar subarray of the plurality of solar subarrays comprises a plurality of solar panels; and
an array monitoring device, wherein the array monitoring device is coupled to the solar array and performs a comparison of a power production profile and at least one reference profile and determines, based on the comparison, whether the impairment exists, and wherein the power production profile and the at least one reference profile are for at least one of the solar array, at least one solar subarray of the plurality of solar subarrays, or at least one solar panel of the plurality of solar panels.



22. The system of claim 21 further comprising a plurality of micro-inverters, wherein the plurality of micro-inverters are coupled to the plurality of solar subarrays in a one-to-one relationship, and wherein the plurality of micro-inverters are coupled to the array monitoring device.


23. The system of claim 21 further comprising a plurality of micro-inverters, wherein the plurality of micro-inverters are coupled to the plurality of solar panels in a one-to-one relationship, and wherein the plurality of micro-inverters are coupled to the array monitoring device.


24. The system of claim 21 wherein the array monitoring device comprises:
a power production profile database for storing at least one power production profile, wherein the array monitoring device obtains the power production profile from the power production profile database; and
a reference profile database for storing the at least one reference profile, wherein the array monitoring device obtains the at least one reference profile from the reference profile database.



25. The system of claim 21 wherein the array monitoring device generates the power production profile.


26. The system of claim 21 wherein the array monitoring device generates the at least one reference profile.


27. The system of claim 21 wherein the array monitoring device is coupled to the solar array via the Internet. 

