
An integrated module frame and racking system for a solar panel is disclosed. The solar panel comprises a plurality of solar modules and a plurality of splices for coupling the plurality of solar modules together. The plurality of splices provide a way to make the connected modules mechanically rigid both during transport to the roof and after mounting for the lifetime of the system, provide wiring connections between modules, provide an electrical grounding path for the modules, provide a way to add modules to the panel, and provide a way to remove or change a defective module. Connector mount assemblies are provided on the sides of the modules to simplify the electrical assembly of modules when the modules are connected together with splices and to simplify the final connection of external wiring to the module.



1. A solar panel comprising:
a plurality of solar modules; and
a plurality of threaded splices for coupling the plurality of solar modules together; wherein the plurality of splices provides rigidity,



2. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein the plurality of threaded splices provides a grounding path for the modules.


3. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein each of the threaded splices comprises:
a body for coupling two solar modules together;
threads on each end of the body for causing a coupling of two solar modules; and
a secure mechanism for securing the body to at least one of the two solar module.



4. The solar panel of claim 3 wherein the secure mechanism comprises a cam lock mechanism.


5. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein each of the solar modules include a plurality of connector assemblies placed such that improper wiring based on cable length is prevented and placed such that at least one connector socket of one solar module is aligned with the connector assemblies of another solar module when coupled together.


6. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein each of the solar modules include a plurality of connector assembles designed so that improper wiring is prevented by the shape of the connector mount.


7. The solar panel of claim 6 wherein the connector assemblies comprise a connector mount coupled to one of a female and a male connector.


8. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein the plurality of the threaded splices are internal to the solar modules.


9. The solar panel of claim 1 includes at least one shim block between two of the modules.


10. The solar panel of claim 1 includes at least one North-South (N-S) spacer block between two modules.


11. The solar panel of claim 1 wherein each of the modules include a groove extending along the solar module; the groove for receiving a ground mount, the ground mount for securing the solar panel to a structure.


12. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein the ground mount includes a stud for mounting directly to a surface.


13. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein a quick release clamp is utilized as the ground mount and engages the groove.


14. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein the threaded splice comprises a N-S splice.


15. The solar of claim 14 wherein the threaded splice includes a cam lock.


16. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein a plurality of wiring segments electrically couple the modules together.


17. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein each module includes a junction box therewithin for receiving wiring segments within the module and between modules.


18. The solar panel of claim 17 wherein the junction box comprises a standard junction box.


19. The solar panel of claim 17 wherein the junction box is automatically coupled to a side of each of the modules and a grounding path is provided to a system ground on the panel solar.


20. The solar panel of claim 16 wherein the wiring segments include connectors that allow for quick connection to each other and to a junction box.


21. The solar panel of claim 16 wherein the junction box includes connectors that allow for quick connection to the wiring segments.


22. The solar panel of claim 11 wherein a combiner box located externally to the solar panel is coupled thereto to provide electrical connection to other solar panels.


23. The solar panel of claim 17 wherein the junction box provides wiring transitions between the modules.


24. A system comprising:
a plurality of solar modules;
a plurality of packing spacers for separating the plurality of solar modules; and
a stacking strap for retaining the plurality of solar modules, wherein the plurality of packing spacers ensure proper clearances for the shipping of the stacked modules.



25. The system of claim 24 wherein each end of the spacer blocks include a chamfered edge to facilitate alignment.


26. The system of claim 24 wherein the at least one spacer blocks includes a channel for holding wiring.


27. A wrench
comprising:
a body portion;
a first opening at one end of the body portion for setting a cam lock for a splice;
a second opening at an opposite end of the body portion for unlocking a connector for a module; and
a third opening between the first and second openings for driving a double screw lock splice.



28. A method for installing a solar panel system comprising:
installing mounting hardware on a surface;
positioning solar panels over the mounting hardware;
inserting splices into the frame of the solar panels coupling an array of solar panels together utilizing the splice;
fully tightening the splices;
fully securing the mounting hardware; and
repeating the above until the solar panel system is installed.



29. A solar panel comprising:
a plurality of solar modules; a plurality of threaded splices for coupling the plurality of solar modules together; wherein the plurality of splices provides rigidity; wherein each of the solar modules include a plurality of connector assembles designed so that improper wiring is prevented by the shape of the connector mount; wherein the connector assemblies comprise a connector mount coupled to one of a female and a male connector; wherein each of the modules include a groove extending along the solar module; the groove for receiving a ground mount, the ground mount for securing the solar panel to a structure; wherein a plurality of wiring segments electrically couple the modules together; wherein each module includes a junction box therewithin for receiving wiring segments within the module and between modules.



30. The solar panel of claim 29 wherein the junction box is automatically coupled to a side of each of the modules and a grounding path is provided to a system ground on the panel solar.


31. The solar panel of claim 29 wherein the wiring segments include connectors that allow for quick connection to each other and to a junction box.


32. The solar panel of claim 29 wherein the junction box includes connectors that allow for quick connection to the wiring segments.


33. The solar panel of claim 29 wherein a combiner box located externally to the solar panel is coupled thereto to provide electrical connection to other solar panels.


34. The solar panel of claim 29 wherein the junction box provides wiring transitions between the modules.


35. A quick release clip for mounting a solar panel to a surface comprising:
a post member; and
a cam lever mechanism coupled to the post member for engagably complying the post member to a solar panel.



36. The quick release clip of claim 35 wherein the cam lever mechanism comprises:
a bracket;
a mounting post coupled to a groove of the bracket; and
a connector assembly coupled to the mounting post and;
a cam lever coupled to the connector assembly for moving the mounting post based upon the position of the cam lever.
37. The quick release clip of claim 36 wherein the connector assembly includes a support member, at least one flat washer on one side, a coil spring within the groove of the L-bracket and at least one washer on the other side of the coil spring.


