
A relocatable photovoltaic system includes a fixed anchoring system; a relocatable base removably attachable to the fixed anchoring system; and a canopy attachable to the relocatable base, the canopy including a plurality of energy converting units that convert solar energy into electrical energy.



1. A relocatable photovoltaic system, comprising:
a fixed anchoring system;
a relocatable base removably attached to the fixed anchoring system;
a canopy attached to the relocatable base, the canopy including a plurality of energy converting units that convert solar energy into electrical energy.



2. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the fixed anchoring system is located in the ground.


3. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the relocatable base includes an elongated vertical member and the fixed anchoring system includes a hole and a sleeve fixed in position in the hole that slidably receives the elongated vertical member of the relocatable base.


4. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 3, wherein the sleeve of the fixed anchoring system is vertically disposed within and coaxially located within hole.


5. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 4, wherein the anchoring system includes a support structure for fixing the sleeve in position in the hole, the support structure including concrete-reinforced rebar.


6. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 4, wherein the hole includes a vertically elongated lower section with a first diameter and a shallow upper section with a second diameter that is greater than the first diameter.


7. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 4, wherein the anchoring system includes a top receiver.


8. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein the top receiver includes a central hole for receiving the elongated vertical member of the relocatable base there through, and threaded holes for receiving threaded bolts for attaching the relocatable base to the fixed anchoring system.


9. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 7, further including a seal for creating a water barrier between the relocatable base and the fixed anchoring system.


10. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the relocatable base includes a elongated vertical member with a top configured to attach with the canopy and a bottom configured to be removably attachable to the fixed anchoring system.


11. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the relocatable base includes a support structure with concrete-reinforced rebar throughout substantially an entire vertical portion of the relocatable base above the fixed anchoring system when attached to the fixed anchoring system.


12. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the relocatable base includes a support structure with concrete-reinforced rebar throughout a lower vertical portion of the relocatable base above the fixed anchoring system when attached to the fixed anchoring system.


13. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the anchoring system includes a top receiver having a recess with a geometric configuration and the relocatable base includes a bottom mounting portion with a corresponding geometric configuration that mates within the recess of the top receiver for attaching the relocatable base to the fixed anchoring system, and prevent relative rotation there between.


14. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the relocatable base includes an auxiliary power connector for supplying auxiliary power and a grid power connector for supplying grid power.


15. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the canopy is separate from, and removably attachable to, the relocatable base.


16. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the canopy includes a truss assembly, a panel mounting structure supported by the truss assembly, and one or more solar panels carried by the panel mounting structure, the one or more solar panels include a plurality of energy converting units that convert solar energy into electrical energy.


17. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 16, wherein the canopy is a fixed canopy that orients the one or more panels at a fixed angle where the energy converting units capture the most solar energy.


18. The relocatable photovoltaic system of claim 16, wherein the canopy is a movable canopy that moves the one or more panels to track the relative movement of the sun through the sky so that the energy converting units capture the most solar energy.


19. A method of using a relocatable photovoltaic system including a fixed anchoring system, a relocatable base removably attachable to the fixed anchoring system; and a canopy removably attachable to the relocatable base, the canopy including a plurality of energy converting units that convert solar energy into electrical energy, the method comprising:
providing the fixed anchoring system including providing a hole, vertically positioning a sleeve within the hole so that the sleeve is coaxially located within the hole, connecting rebar to the sleeve, and pouring concrete into the hole to create a concrete-reinforced rebar support structure for fixing the sleeve in position within the hole, the anchoring system including a receiver at a top of the sleeve;
removably attaching the relocatable base to the fixed anchoring system by lowering an elongated vertical member of the relocatable base into the sleeve so that the sleeve slidably receives the elongated vertical member, securing a bottom mounting portion of the relocatable base to the receiver;
removably attaching the canopy to the relocatable base by lowering the canopy onto a top of the relocatable base and securing the canopy to the top of the relocatable base.



20. The method of claim 19, further including relocating the relocatable photovoltaic system from a prior location to a new location by providing a new fixed anchoring system at the new location;
detaching and removing the canopy from the relocatable base at the prior location;
detaching and removing the relocatable base from the fixed anchoring system at the prior location;
attaching the same relocatable base to the new fixed anchoring system at the new location;
attaching the same canopy to the relocatable base at the new location.



21. The method of claim 20, further including, after relocating the relocatable photovoltaic system from the prior location to the new location, building over the fixed anchoring system at the prior location or removing the fixed anchoring system at the prior location. 

