
One photovoltaic module includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells and at least one device selected from a sensor, a data storage device and an indicator. Another photovoltaic module includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells and a flexible circuit configured to act as an antenna for electromagnetic radiation. Methods of using such photovoltaic modules are also disclosed.



1. A photovoltaic module, comprising:
(A) a plurality of photovoltaic cells, and
(B) at least one device integrated into the module, wherein the device comprises:
(a) a sensor configured to detect a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells;
(b) a data storage device configured to record at least one parameter of at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells; or
(c) an indicator configured to display a status of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.




2. The module of claim 1, comprising the sensor configured to detect a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.


3. The module of claim 2, wherein the sensor is selected from the group consisting of a strain gauge, a temperature sensor, an irradiance sensor, a fire detector, an accelerometer, a humidity sensor, a corrosion byproduct sensor, a motion sensor or a surveillance camera, a GPS receiver/location sensor, a sensor configured to measure an output current or an output voltage of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.


4. The module of claim 1, further comprising a flexible circuit configured as an antenna for receiving and/or transmitting an electromagnetic radiation signal.


5. The module of claim 1, further comprising a collector-connector, wherein the plurality of photovoltaic cells comprise a first photovoltaic cell and a second photovoltaic cell and wherein the collector-connector is configured to collect current from the first photovoltaic cell and to electrically connect the first photovoltaic cell to the second photovoltaic cell.


6. The module of claim 1, comprising the data storage device configured to record at least one parameter of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.


7. The module of claim 6, wherein the at least one parameter is selected from the group consisting of a power output, current, voltage, temperature, irradiation, system status, error message and a combination thereof.


8. The module of claim 6, wherein the data storage device is a memory chip configured to transmit data on the at least one parameter externally.


9. The module of claim 6, further comprising a monitor, which is electrically connected to the data storage device and which is configured to display data on the at least one parameter.


10. The module of claim 1, comprising one or more indicators configured to display a status of at least one cell of the plurality of the photovoltaic cells.


11. The module of claim 10, wherein the one or more indicators comprise a light emitting diode.


12. The module of claim 10, wherein at least one of the one or more indicators is placed on each of the plurality of the photovoltaic cells.


13. The module of claim 1, further comprising a decorative or informational display integrated in the module.


14. The module of claim 1, further comprising a smart AC disconnect configured to disconnect the plurality of photovoltaic cells in response to a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.


15. The module of claim 1, further comprising a cooling device or a vibrational transducer device.


16. The module of claim 1, comprising at least two of:
(a) the sensor configured to detect a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells;
(b) the data storage device configured to record at least one parameter of at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells; or
(c) the indicator configured to display a status of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.



17. The module of claim 1, comprising:
(a) the sensor configured to detect a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells;
(b) the data storage device configured to record at least one parameter of at least one of the plurality of photovoltaic cells; and
(c) the indicator configured to display a status of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.



18. A photovoltaic module comprising
(A) a plurality of photovoltaic cells and
(B) a flexible circuit that is integrated in the module and is configured as an antenna for at least one of receiving or transmitting an electromagnetic radiation signal.



19. The photovoltaic module of claim 18, wherein
the plurality of photovoltaic cells comprises a first photovoltaic cell and a second photovoltaic cell;
the flexible circuit comprises a collector-connector configured to collect current from the first photovoltaic cell and to electrically connect the first photovoltaic cell to the second photovoltaic cell;
the electromagnetic radiation signal is selected from the group consisting from a TV signal, a radio signal, a cellular phone signal, a satellite signal, a signal from one or more RFID tags or a combination thereof; and
further comprising at least one device integrated into the module, the device comprising:
(a) a sensor configured to detect a change in one or more parameters affecting at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells;
(b) a data storage device configured to record at least one parameter of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells; or
(c) an indicator configured to display a status of at least one cell of the plurality of photovoltaic cells.




20-21. (canceled)


22. A method of using a photovoltaic module comprising a plurality of photovoltaic cells, comprising:
monitoring at least one parameter using a sensor integrated into the photovoltaic module; and
modifying a performance of the photovoltaic module in response to a detected change in the at least one parameter.



23. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a strain caused by snow accumulated on the photovoltaic module and wherein the modifying comprises reversing a bias applied to the photovoltaic module.


24. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a strain caused by unsafe loading or mounting of the photovoltaic module and wherein the modifying comprises shutting down the module.


25. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a temperature and wherein the modifying comprises reconfiguring connections between cells of the plurality of photovoltaic cells or modifying a performance of a cooling system of the photovoltaic module.


26. The method of claim 22, wherein the sensor is an irradiance sensor and wherein the modifying comprises modifying a configuration of the module to maximize a radiance flux detected by the irradiance sensor.


27. The method of claim 22, wherein the sensor is an irradiance sensor is configured to detect an excessive dirt on the module and wherein the modifying comprises cleaning the module by spraying the module with water or exposing the module to vibrations from a piezo element.

