
Systems and methods for facilitating setting up a photovoltaic unit are presented. The current invention describes an integral photovoltaic unit and methods to install this unit onto a roof of a building or onto another structural component.



1. A pre-assembled integral photovoltaic unit comprising:
a mounting frame;
one or more solar cell assemblies mounted to said mounting frame;
an attachment means on the mounting frame for attaching the unit to an exterior structure; and
one or more electrical leads electrically connecting the plurality of solar cell assemblies;
one or more electronic components electrically connected with said solar cell assemblies.



2. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein at least one of the electronic components is a micro-inverter.


3. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 2, wherein the micro-inverter is attached to the mounting frame.


4. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein the mounting frame is made of a metallic material.


5. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 4, wherein the solar cell assemblies are grounded.


6. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein the mounting frame is made of a non-metallic material.


7. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein said non-metallic material is fiber glass or carbon fiber


8. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein the solar cell assemblies are photovoltaic modules.


9. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein the solar cell assemblies are photovoltaic laminates.


10. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 6, wherein the one or more solar cell assemblies are photovoltaic laminates.


11. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1, wherein the exterior structure is a roof.


12. The integral photovoltaic unit of claim 1 further comprising a protective crate, wherein said protective crate fits over the mounting frame to protect said solar cell assemblies during transportation of the integral photovoltaic unit.


13. A mounting frame for holding a plurality of solar cell assemblies, the mounting frame comprising:
two or more triangular shaped rails;
two or more flat end caps; and
a plurality of brackets for attaching said mounting frame to an exterior structure;
wherein said flat end caps are attached to an end of at least two of the two or more triangular shaped rails, wherein at least two of the triangular shaped rails are substantially parallel to each other, whereby said triangular shaped rails and said flat end caps form a frame.



14. The mounting frame of claim 13, wherein said triangular shaped rails and said flat end caps are made of a non-metallic material.


15. The mounting frame of claim 13, wherein the exterior structure is a roof, further wherein the triangular shaped rails are substantially parallel to an eave of the roof.


16. The mounting frame of claim 13 further comprising one or more cross supports.


17. The mounting frame of claim 16, wherein one or more clips are disposed between adjacent solar cell assemblies and are attached to said cross supports, whereby the solar cell assemblies are held in place by said one or more clips, wherein the clips are configured to be attached with the cross supports without having to access the other side of the mounting frame.


18. A method for installing an integral photovoltaic unit on an exterior structure, the method comprising:
placing a drill jig on the exterior structure to prepare one or more locations where said integral photovoltaic unit will be attached to the exterior structure;
attaching one or more mounting blocks to said one or more locations, wherein said mounting blocks have a large area onto which said integral photovoltaic unit can be fixed; and
installing said integral photovoltaic unit onto the exterior structure.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein said exterior structure is a roof.


20. The method of claim 19, wherein the integral photovoltaic unit is installed on the roof of a pre-fabricated house, prior to said pre-fabricated house being transported to a destination site.


21. The method of claim 15, wherein the integral photovoltaic is covered with a protective crate.


22. The method of claim 21, wherein the protective crate is made of wood, plastic, or cardboard, or any combination thereof.


23. The method of claim 18 further comprising:
strapping a sling around said photovoltaic unit;
adjusting said sling to fit the photovoltaic unit;
pulling said sling, including said photovoltaic unit, up to said exterior structure.



24. The method of claim 23, wherein said sling has means for gripping one or more pulling ends of said sling.


25. The method of claim 23, wherein said sling is made of nylon webbing.


26. The method of claim 23 further comprising one or more guides for pulling said photovoltaic unit up to said exterior structure along said one or more guides.


27. The method of claim 26, wherein said one or more guides are ladders.


28. A portable template for use in conjunction with a mounting tool to install one or more photovoltaic units onto an exterior structure, the portable template comprising:
a rigid frame; and
a plurality of guides attached to said rigid frame, wherein said guides are used to guide a tool to enable a plurality of fixings to be attached to the exterior structure.



29. A method for facilitating installation of an arrangement of integral photovoltaic units, the method comprising:
providing at least two integral photovoltaic units, wherein each of the at least two integral photovoltaic units includes at least one micro-inverter, further wherein the integral photovoltaic units include visual codes indicating the required orientation of the integral photovoltaic units to enable correct electrical connection of the micro-inverters.



30. An integral photovoltaic unit comprising:
a mounting frame;
one or more photovoltaic modules connected with said mounting frame;
at least one micro-inverter electrically connected with the photovoltaic modules;
wherein the photovoltaic modules are grounded;
wherein the integral photovoltaic unit includes visual codes indicating the orientation of the integral photovoltaic unit to enable correct electrical connection of the integral photovoltaic unit with an adjacent photovoltaic unit.



31. A method for selecting a photovoltaic system size using a sizing chart, the method comprising:
selecting a column/row corresponding to a solar zone where the photovoltaic system will be installed;
selecting a row/column corresponding to a desired reduction in energy costs;
connecting the selected column/row and row/column to determine the photovoltaic system size needed to achieve the desired reduction in energy costs. 


