
A flexible, lightweight photovoltaic cell array includes one or more individual photovoltaic cell strings attached to a polyimide film substrate and covered with a polyvinyl fluoride film. Each photovoltaic cell string includes one or more photovoltaic cells attached to a flexible printed circuit board. The photovoltaic cell array may be manufactured by a method that includes bonding at least one photovoltaic cell to a flexible printed circuit board, mounting the flexible printed circuit board on a polyimide film substrate, and covering the flexible printed circuit board with a substantially transparent polyvinyl fluoride film.



1. A method of manufacturing a flexible photovoltaic array, the method comprising:
bonding at least one photovoltaic cell to a flexible printed circuit board;
mounting said flexible printed circuit board on a first side of a polyimide film substrate; and
covering said flexible printed circuit board with a substantially transparent film.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
coating said first side of said polyimide film substrate with an adhesive; and
coating a second side of said polyimide film substrate with a high-emissivity coating.



3. The method of claim 2, wherein coating the second side of said polyimide film substrate with the high-emissivity coating comprises coating the second side of said polyimide film substrate with high-emissivity paint.


4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
attaching a bladder sleeve to said polyimide film substrate prior to covering said flexible printed circuit board with said film.



5. The method of claim 4 wherein said attaching is performed prior to covering said flexible printed circuit board with said film.


6. The method of claim 1, wherein mounting said flexible printed circuit board comprises mounting said flexible printed circuit board on said polyimide film substrate reinforced with aramid fibers.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein covering said flexible printed circuit board comprises covering said flexible printed circuit board with a substantially transparent polyvinyl fluoride film.


8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
mounting said film substrate directly to a surface of a spacecraft or an airplane.



9. A flexible photovoltaic array comprising:
at least one photovoltaic cell bonded to a flexible printed circuit board;
a polyimide film substrate on which said flexible printed circuit board is mounted; and
a substantially transparent film covering said flexible printed circuit board.



10. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 9, wherein:
a first side of said polyimide film substrate is coated with an adhesive; and
a second side of said polyimide film substrate is coated with a high-emissivity coating.



11. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 10, wherein said flexible printed circuit board is mounted on said first side of said polyimide film substrate.


12. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 10, wherein said high-emissivity coating is high-emissivity paint.


13. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 9, further comprising:
a bladder sleeve attached thereto.



14. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 13 wherein said bladder sleeve is attached to said polyimide film substrate and is covered by said substantially transparent film.


15. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 9, wherein said polyimide film substrate is reinforced with aramid fibers.


16. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 9, wherein said substantially transparent film is a polyvinyl fluoride film.


17. The flexible photovoltaic array of claim 9, wherein said polyimide film substrate is mounted directly to a surface of a spacecraft or an airplane. 

