
A device for fixing objects, in particular solar panels, to a roof, the device comprising at least one base element connectable to the roof and a top structure connectable to the base element for fixing to an object, wherein the base element and the top structure can be mutually coupled by means of a snap connection. A process for assembling such devices.



1. A device for fixing objects, in particular, solar panels, to a roof, the device comprising:
a) at least one base element connectable to the roof, and
b) a top structure connectable to the base element for fixing to an object,

wherein the base element and the top structure can be mutually coupled by means of a snap connection.


2. The device of claim 1, wherein the base element comprises coupling means for co-action with mating means forming part of the top structure for the purpose of realizing the snap connection.


3. The device of claim 1, wherein the base element and the top structure are adapted for mutually releasable coupling.


4. The device of claim 1, wherein the snap connection is adapted for two-dimensional fixation of the relative orientation of the base element and the top structure.


5. The device of claim 1, wherein the base element is provided with a substantially hook-shaped member adapted for co-action with a part of the roof, in particular, with a tile batten arranged on the roof.


6. The device of claim 5, wherein the hook-shaped member is provided with at least one at least partially profiled side.


7. The device of claim 5, wherein the volume of a receiving space enclosed by the substantially hook-shaped member can be changed.


8. The device of claim 1, wherein the top structure is formed by a mounting rail.


9. The device of claim 1, wherein the device comprises a plurality of base elements, which base elements are adapted for simultaneous co-action with the top structure.


10. The device of claim 1, wherein the base element is formed by an extrusion profile.


11. A system for fixing objects, in particular, solar panels, to a roof comprising a plurality of devices, each comprising:
a) at least one base element connectable to the roof, and
b) a top structure connectable to the base element for fixing to an object,

wherein the base element and the top structure can be mutually coupled by means of a snap connection, and
wherein the assembly is adapted to support at least one object, in particular, a solar panel.


12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the top structures of each device has a substantially parallel orientation relative to each other.


13. A method for fixing objects, in particular, solar panels, to a roof, the method comprising:
a) fixing at least one base element to a roof, in particular, to a tile batten arranged on the roof,
b) fixing a top structure to the base element by means of a snap connection, and
c) fixing at least one object to the top structure. 


