
Methods and devices are provided for rapid solar module installation. In one embodiment, a photovoltaic module is provided comprising of a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer. The module may be a frameless module. The module may have brackets that slidably engage a mounting structure.



1. A photovoltaic module mounting system comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer; and
one or more mounting brackets in contact with the module.



2. The system of claim 1 wherein the brackets have a C cross-sectional shape and configured to mate to another bracket mounted on a roof or mounting surface.


3. The system of claim 1 wherein the module is a frameless module.


4. The system of claim 1 wherein the module is a partially framed module.


5. The system of claim 1 wherein the module is a fully framed module.


6. The system of claim 1 wherein the brackets are configured to slidably engage a mounting structure.


7. The system of claim 1 further comprising a retaining apparatus inside at least one of the brackets.


8. The system of claim 1 wherein the brackets are configured to restrain movement of the module in at least one axis.


9. The system of claim 1 wherein the brackets are configured to restrain movement of the module in a first axis and a second axis.


10. A photovoltaic module mounting method comprising:
providing a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer; and
attaching one or more mounting brackets in contact with the backside module layer;
sliding the module onto a support apparatus, wherein the mounting brackets are oriented to prevent movement of the module in at least one axis.



11. The method of claim 10 wherein the brackets are configured to slidably engage a mounting structure.


12. The method of claim 10 wherein the brackets are coupled to a perimeter frame of the module.


13. The method of claim 10 further comprising placing the mounting structure on a roof, applying foam over at least a portion of the roof and the mounting structure to hold them together, and then sliding the modules with the mounting brackets in place.


14. A photovoltaic module mounting method for use with a roof, the method comprising:
placing the mounting structure on a roof,
applying foam over at least a portion of the roof and the mounting structure to hold them together;
providing a plurality of photovoltaic cells positioned between a transparent module layer and a backside module layer, the module having one or more mounting brackets in contact with the backside module layer;
sliding the module onto a support apparatus, wherein the mounting brackets are oriented to prevent movement of the module in at least one axis.



15. The method of claim 14 wherein the module is a frameless module.


16. The system of claim 14 wherein the module is a partially framed module.


17. The system of claim 14 wherein the module is a fully framed module.


18. The system of claim 14 further comprising a retaining apparatus inside at least one of the brackets.


19. The system of claim 14 wherein the brackets are configured to restrain movement of the module in at least one axis.


20. The system of claim 14 wherein the brackets are configured to restrain movement of the module in a first axis and a second axis. 

