
A solar panel roof mounting system, including: a first elongated member having a U-shaped or C-shaped channel therein; and a second elongated member having a U-shaped or C-shaped channel therein, wherein the second elongated member is received into the first elongated member such that the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member is elevated with respect to the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the first elongated member.



1. A solar panel roof mounting system, comprising:
a first elongated member having a U-shaped or C-shaped channel therein; and
a second elongated member having a U-shaped or C-shaped channel therein, wherein the second elongated member is received into the first elongated member such that the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member is elevated with respect to the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the first elongated member.



2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first elongated member is a standoff.


3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first elongated member is cladded or extruded.


4. The system of claim 1, wherein the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member forms a cable tray.


5. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second elongated members comprise laterally extending portions that are connected to one another.


6. The system of claim 5, wherein the laterally extending portion of the second elongated member is positioned on top of the laterally extending portion of the first elongated member.


7. The system of claim 5, wherein the laterally extending portions of the first and second elongated members are interlocking.


8. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
an end plate dimensioned to connect onto the first and second elongated members and to cover an end of the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member.



9. The system of claim 8, wherein the end plate is dimensioned to wrap around a side and front portion of a solar panel positioned on top of the second elongated member.


10. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a center plate dimensioned to connect onto the first and second elongated members and to cover a portion of the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member.



11. The system of claim 10, wherein the center plate is dimensioned to wrap around a side and front portion of two spaced apart solar panels positioned on top of the second elongated member.


12. The system of claim 1, wherein the first elongated member is made of Steel, Galvalume, Aluminum, Stainless steel, PVC or similar extrusion cladded with TPO, PVC, Hypalon, EPDM, sprayed polyurethane foam, modified Bitumen, building roofing.


13. The system of claim 1, wherein the second elongated member is made of Steel, Galvalume, Aluminum, Stainless steel, PVC or similar extrusion cladded with TPO, PVC, Hypalon, or EPDM, sprayed polyurethane foam, modified Bitumen, building roofing.


14. The system of claim 1, wherein the first elongated member is connected to a roof by heat welding of an strip of membrane on the cladded or extruded member and then welding to the roof membrane, adhering the first member to the roof, fastening through first member in to the roof, using weights to ballast the first member on the roof, bolting to the roof or any combination of the above.


15. A method of mounting solar panels on a roof, comprising:
mounting a first elongated member on a roof, the first elongated member having a U-shaped channel therein;
mounting a second elongated member onto the first elongated member, the second elongated member having a U-shaped or C-shaped channel therein, wherein the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the second elongated member is received into the U-shaped or C-shaped channel in the first U-shaped or C-shaped channel thereby forming a cable tray;
positioning a solar panel on top of the second elongated member; and
securing the solar panel onto the top of the second elongated member.



16. The method of claim 15, wherein securing the solar panel onto the top of the second elongated member comprises:
wrapping an edge of a center plate around the solar panel; and
connecting the center plate onto the second elongated member.



17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
positioning a second solar panel on top of the second elongated member; and
wrapping an opposite edge of a center plate around the second solar panel.



18. The method of claim 15, wherein mounting a first elongated member on a roof comprises heat welding of an strip of membrane on the cladded or extruded member and then welding to the roof membrane, adhering the first member to the roof, fastening through first member in to the roof, using weights to ballast the first member on the roof, bolting to the roof or any combination of the above. 

