
A photovoltaic inverter that can respond to changes in temperature and the amount of sunlight and that can automatically start up is provided, which has a simple configuration and is inexpensive. The photovoltaic inverter has a first voltage detection means for detecting an output voltage of a photovoltaic panel; a current detection means, a control means and a driving means. It further has a model voltage storage means for storing a model voltage table of inverter start-up kick voltages produced based on variation values of an amount of sunlight, a model voltage read-out means, a second voltage detection means for detecting an inverter start-up kick voltage, and an inverter start-up control means.



1. A photovoltaic inverter comprising a first voltage detection means; a current detection means; a control means and a driving means,
wherein the photovoltaic inverter further comprises a model voltage storage means for storing a seasonal variation value table of inverter start-up kick voltages produced based on variation values of an amount of sunlight; a model voltage read-out means; a second voltage detection means for detecting an inverter start-up kick voltage; and an inverter start-up control means.



2. A photovoltaic inverter comprising an inverter controlling an output voltage of a photovoltaic panel and supplying the output voltage to a load; a driving means for driving said inverter; a power detection means for detecting the output power of the photovoltaic panel, the power detection means being constituted by a first voltage detection means for detecting an output voltage of the photovoltaic panel and a current detection means for detecting an output current of the photovoltaic panel; and a power control means for applying a PWM control signal to the driving means;
wherein the photovoltaic inverter further comprises a model voltage storage means for storing a model voltage table of inverter start-up kick voltages produced based on variation values of an amount of sunlight; a model voltage read-out means; a second voltage detection means for detecting a kick voltage for inverter start-up; and an inverter start-up control means.



3. A photovoltaic inverter comprising an inverter controlling an output voltage of a photovoltaic panel and supplying the output voltage to a load; a driving means for driving said inverter; a power detection means for detecting the output power of the photovoltaic panel, the power detection means being constituted by a first voltage detection means for detecting an output voltage of the photovoltaic panel and a current detection means for detecting an output current of the photovoltaic panel; and a power control means for applying a PWM control signal to the driving means; wherein the load is connected to the inverter via a contactless switching element that is conductive only when its control electrode receives a signal that is supplied from an inverter start-up control means;
wherein the photovoltaic inverter further comprises a model voltage storage means for storing a model voltage table of inverter start-up kick voltages produced based on variation values of an amount of sunlight; a model voltage read-out means; a second voltage detection means for detecting an inverter start-up kick voltage; and an inverter start-up control means.



4. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 1, wherein seasonal variation values of the inverter start-up kick voltage produced based on seasonal variation values of an amount of sunlight are taken as the model voltage, and the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a time axis serves as the X-axis and temperature serves as the Y-axis.


5. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 1, wherein the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a gradual variation model voltage VM in which the element of seasonal variations is factored in and that can be read out in chronological order and a short day model voltage VML to enable daily corrections are stored and arranged as a table.


6. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 5, wherein the gradual variation model voltage VM and the short day model voltage VML are stored and arranged into a model voltage table, the VM table and the VML table are read out and combined, and a model voltage table is obtained for setting the kick voltage of that day, taking all seasons and all times as model voltages.


7. A photovoltaic system, comprising:
a solar cell;
an inverter connected to the solar cell;
a control unit controlling the inverter based on a voltage and a current between the solar cell and the inverter; and
a start-up command signal providing unit that sends a start-up command signal to the control unit, using a model voltage table of inverter start-up kick voltages that are produced based on variation values of an amount of sunlight.



8. The photovoltaic system according to claim 7, wherein the start-up command signal providing unit detects the voltage between the solar cell and the inverter at a time when operation of the inverter starts, and this voltage can be stored in the model voltage table as the inverter start-up kick voltage.


9. The photovoltaic system according to claim 7, wherein the start-up command signal providing unit comprises a storage unit storing the model voltage table; a voltage detection unit detecting the voltage between the solar cell and the inverter; a read-out unit reading out from the model voltage table an inverter start-up kick voltage that matches a detection result of the voltage detection unit; and a start-up control unit that sends a start-up command signal to the control unit, based on the inverter start-up kick voltage that has been read out.


10. The photovoltaic system according to claim 7, wherein, in the model voltage table, the inverter start-up kick voltages are set in correlation with information that influences a variation in the amount of sunlight, such as the time of day, the month to which the day belongs or the season.


11. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 2, wherein seasonal variation values of the inverter start-up kick voltage produced based on seasonal variation values of an amount of sunlight are taken as the model voltage, and the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a time axis serves as the X-axis and temperature serves as the Y-axis.


12. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 3, wherein seasonal variation values of the inverter start-up kick voltage produced based on seasonal variation values of an amount of sunlight are taken as the model voltage, and the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a time axis serves as the X-axis and temperature serves as the Y-axis.


13. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 2, wherein the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a gradual variation model voltage VM in which the element of seasonal variations is factored in and that can be read out in chronological order and a short day model voltage VML to enable daily corrections are stored and arranged as a table.


14. The photovoltaic inverter according to claim 3, wherein the model voltage table is a model voltage table in which a gradual variation model voltage VM in which the element of seasonal variations is factored in and that can be read out in chronological order and a short day model voltage VML to enable daily corrections are stored and arranged as a table.


15. The photovoltaic system according to claim 8, wherein the start-up command signal providing unit comprises a storage unit storing the model voltage table; a voltage detection unit detecting the voltage between the solar cell and the inverter; a read-out unit reading out from the model voltage table an inverter start-up kick voltage that matches a detection result of the voltage detection unit; and a start-up control unit that sends a start-up command signal to the control unit, based on the inverter start-up kick voltage that has been read out.


16. The photovoltaic system according to claim 8, wherein, in the model voltage table, the inverter start-up kick voltages are set in correlation with information that influences a variation in the amount of sunlight, such as the time of day, the month to which the day belongs or the season.


17. The photovoltaic system according to claim 9, wherein, in the model voltage table, the inverter start-up kick voltages are set in correlation with information that influences a variation in the amount of sunlight, such as the time of day, the month to which the day belongs or the season.

