
A solar panel monitoring device and method is disclosed. The solar panel monitoring smart device comprises at least one power source or input; at least one sensor connected to the input, where the at least one sensor is adapted to responsively generate monitoring information on the input with which it is associated; a processor for receiving the monitoring information regarding the input from each of the sensors, and adapted to forward the received monitoring information; and a transmission chip for receiving the monitoring information, packetizing the monitoring information, and transmitting to a remote location.



1. A solar panel monitoring device comprising:
a solar panel monitoring device operative to monitor a solar panel;
a power input, coupled to the output of the solar panel;
at least one sensor coupled to the power input, the at least one sensor adapted to responsively generate monitoring information on the power input;
a processor operative to receive the monitoring information on the power input from each of the at least one sensors, and adapted to forward the received monitoring information;
a transmission chip operative to receive the forwarded monitoring information, to packetize the monitoring information, and to transmit the packetized monitoring information to a remote location; and
a rechargeable battery coupled to the power input,
wherein the rechargeable battery is adapted to be charged by the power input when current is being generated by the solar panel, and is further adapted to power the at least one sensor, processor, and transmission chip when the current of the power input drops below a predetermined threshold value.



2. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 1, wherein the monitoring information received by the transmission chip is received from the processor.


3. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is operative to monitor the voltage of the power input.


4. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is operative to monitor the current of the power input.


5. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 1, wherein two sensors are coupled to the power input, a first of the two sensors being operative to monitor the voltage of the power input, and the second of the two sensors being operative to monitor the current of the power input.


6. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 5, further including a fourth sensor operative to monitor the ambient temperature where the solar panel monitoring device is installed.


7. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 6, wherein the transmission chip transmits to a remote location using over-the-air modulation.


8. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 7, wherein the over-the-air modulation is in accordance with any one of the IEEE 802.11 protocols.


9. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 1, wherein the transmission chip is further adapted to receive communications from a remote location.


10. The solar panel monitoring device of claim 9, wherein the communications received by the transmission chip alter the operation of the solar panel monitoring device.


11. A method of monitoring the status of a solar panel comprising:
receiving input from the solar panel, the input being the electricity generated by the solar panel;
sensing the voltage of the input;
sensing the current of the input;
converting the sensed voltage into a first digital value;
converting the sensed current into a second digital value;
transmitting the first digital value; and
transmitting the second digital value.



12. The method of monitoring the status of a solar panel of claim 10, wherein transmitting wirelessly the first digital value and second digital value.


13. The method of monitoring the status of a solar panel of claim 10, further storing the first digital value.


14. The method of monitoring the status of a solar panel of claim 13, further storing the second digital value.


15. The method of monitoring the status of a solar panel of claim 10, further sensing the ambient temperature of the solar panel being monitored, converting the sensed ambient temperature into a third digital value, and transmitting the third digital value.

