
A mounting system for supporting solar panel cells above a support surface. The system may have a frame including a plurality of frame sections that are secured to a solar panel cell. At least one of the frame sections may include a pair of walls forming a first channel for receiving an edge portion of the solar panel cell, and a second channel spaced apart from the first channel. The second channel may have a curving inner wall. The at least one frame section may also have a base portion. The mounting system may also include a mounting bracket having a pair of flanges and forming a third channel therebetween. One of the flanges of the third channel may form a curving flange. The curving flange and the second channel of the frame section may cooperatively secure the frame section and the mounting bracket together.



1. A mounting system for supporting solar panel cells panels above a support surface, the system comprising:
a frame including a plurality of frame sections that are secured to a solar panel cell;
at least one of the frame sections including:
a pair of walls forming a first channel for receiving an edge portion of the solar panel cell;
a second channel spaced apart from the first channel, the second channel having a curving inner wall; and
a base portion;

a mounting bracket having a pair of flanges and forming a third channel therebetween, with one of said flanges forming a curving flange, and wherein said curving flange and said second channel of said frame section cooperatively secure said frame section and said mounting bracket together.



2. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein said curving flange of said mounting bracket and said curving inner wall of said second channel of said frame section enable said frame section to be positioned non-perpendicular to said mounting bracket, and then rotated about an arc into a position generally perpendicular to said mounting bracket, wherein said curving flange is captured in said second channel.


3. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein:
said frame section includes an angled notch formed in said base portion; and
said mounting bracket includes a barbed edge in one of the flanges that engages with the angled notch when the mounting bracket is fully engaged with the frame section.



4. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the pair of walls that form the first channel comprise a pair of parallel arranged walls having a thickness generally in accordance with a thickness of the edge portion of the solar panel cell.


5. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein said mounting bracket further includes a base portion for supporting the mounting bracket on the support surface.


6. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket includes an additional pair of flanges extending in a direction opposite to the pair of flanges, the additional pair of flanges forming a fourth channel, with one of the flanges of the additional pair of flanges forming an additional curving flange.


7. The mounting system of claim 6, wherein the third and fourth channels open facing in opposite directions.


8. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the third channel formed in the mounting bracket includes a raised internal shoulder that limits a depth of insertion of the frame section into the third channel.


9. The mounting bracket of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket includes an additional pair of flanges extending in a direction opposite to the pair of flanges, the additional pair of flanges forming a fourth channel, with both of the flanges of the additional pair of flanges extending generally parallel to one another.


10. A mounting system for supporting solar panel cells panels above a support surface, the system comprising:
a frame including a plurality of frame sections that are secured to extend around a periphery of a solar panel cell;
at least one of the frame sections including:
a pair of walls forming a first channel for receiving an edge portion of the solar panel cell;
a second channel spaced apart from the first channel, the second channel having a curving inner wall; and

a mounting bracket having a curving flange shaped generally in accordance with said curving inner wall, the curving flange and curving inner wall cooperatively enabling the frame to be oriented non-perpendicular to the mounting bracket when the curving flange is initially inserted into the second channel, and then enabling the frame to be rotated into a position generally perpendicular to the mounting bracket.



11. The mounting system of claim 10, wherein the curving flange is captured within the second channel when the frame is rotated into the perpendicular position relative to the mounting bracket.


12. The mounting system of claim 10, wherein the mounting bracket includes a generally flat flange that, in connection with the curving flange, forms a third channel.


13. The mounting system of claim 12, wherein the mounting bracket includes an additional pair of flanges that form a fourth channel, the fourth channel extending generally in a direction opposite that of the third channel.


14. The mounting system of claim 13, wherein one of the additional pair of flanges of the mounting bracket comprises a curving shape.


15. The mounting system of claim 13, wherein both of the flanges of the additional pair of flanges of the mounting bracket are formed as generally flat flanges extending parallel to one another.


16. The mounting system of claim 12, wherein:
at least of the flat flange of the mounting bracket and the frame section includes a notch, and the other one of the mounting bracket and the frame section includes a barb shaped to engage with the notch.



17. A frame adapted to support a solar panel cell, the frame including:
a plurality of frame sections adapted to be secured around a perimeter of the solar panel cell, at least one of the frame sections including:
a first channel for engaging with an edge portion of the solar panel cell; and
a second channel having a curving inner wall for engaging with an external mounting bracket, to thus permit the at least one frame section to be initially engaged with the mounting bracket in an orientation nonperpendicular to the mounting bracket, and then rotated into a position generally perpendicular to the mounting bracket, wherein the mounting bracket is then captured in the second channel.




18. The frame of claim 17, wherein the first channel and the second channel open in generally different directions.


19. A mounting bracket for supporting a frame of a solar panel cell above a support surface, the mounting bracket including:
a channel having a pair of flanges forming a channel therebetween, wherein the channel receives therein a frame section of the solar panel cell frame when the mounting bracket is coupled to the frame section; and
one flange of the pair of flanges having a curving shape that permits the frame section to be engaged in the channel in an orientation non-perpendicular to the mounting bracket, and then pivoted into a position generally perpendicular to the mounting bracket so that the frame section is captured in the channel of the mounting bracket.



20. The mounting bracket of claim 19, wherein one of the pair of flanges includes a barbed portion for engaging with the frame section when the frame section is fully inserted into the channel of the mounting bracket, to thus help capture the frame section in the channel. 

