
An electrical power converter for converting power from a bipolar DC source to supply an AC load is disclosed. For one such embodiment the bipolar DC source is a photovoltaic array and the AC power is sourced into an electric power grid. The bipolar photovoltaic array has positive and negative voltage potentials with respect to earth ground. The converter is a utility interactive inverter which does not require an isolation transformer at the electric power grid interface. Embodiments of the invention include methods of detecting and interrupting DC ground faults in the photovoltaic array.



1. An apparatus for converting power from a bipolar DC source to supply an AC load comprising:
a bipolar DC source having a positive and negative monopole, and corresponding voltage potentials, with respect to a common earth ground or with respect to a neutral point of an AC load; and
a DC ground fault interrupt circuit including a means for detecting a fault current in either monopole of the bipolar DC source to earth ground or to a neutral point of the AC load and a means of automatically interrupting the flow of said fault current.



2. The apparatus of claim 1 where said bipolar DC source is further defined as having a plus and minus terminal for each monopole and where the minus terminal of the positive monopole is connected to earth ground through a first fuse and where the plus terminal of the negative monopole is connected to earth ground through a second fuse and where said DC-to-AC power converter circuit is further defined as having plus and minus input terminals and where a first contactor is connected between the plus terminal of the positive monopole and the plus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter and where a second contactor is connected between the minus terminal of the negative monopole and the minus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter and where a third contactor is connected between the minus terminal of the positive monopole and the plus terminal of the negative monopole and where there is a means of detecting an open first or open second fuse and a means of opening the first, second and third contactors in response to an open fuse being detected.


3. The apparatus according to claim 1 where said bipolar photovoltaic source is further defined as having a positive monopole and a negative monopole and where said apparatus has a plus and minus terminal for each monopole and where these four terminals each connect to one of two power terminals on one of four distinct contactors and where the remaining terminal of the contactor connected to the minus terminal of the positive monopole and the remaining terminal of the contactor connected to the plus terminal of the negative monopole are connected together and to earth ground, directly or through a fuse and furthermore, where the remaining terminal of the contactor connected to the plus terminal of the positive monopole is connected to the plus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter and the remaining terminal of the contactor connected to the minus terminal of the negative monopole is connected to the minus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter and furthermore, where there is a means of opening contactors in response to a ground fault in either photovoltaic source monopole.


4. The apparatus of claim 1 where said bipolar photovoltaic source is further defined as having a positive monopole and a negative monopole and where said apparatus has a plus and minus terminal for each monopole and where there is a contactor connected across the plus and minus terminals of each monopole, hereafter collectively referred to as the shorting contactors, and contactors connected from the plus terminal of the positive monopole to the plus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter and the minus terminal of the negative monopole and the minus terminal of the DC-to-AC power converter respectively, hereafter collectively referred to as the isolation contactors, and furthermore where the shorting contactors are open and the isolation contactors are closed under normal operating conditions and where shorting contactors are closed and the isolation contactors are open in response to a ground fault in the affected photovoltaic monopole.


5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the contactor function is performed by a relay, a semiconductor switch, a solid state relay, a contactor or any combination thereof.


6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the contactor function is performed by a relay, a semiconductor switch, a solid state relay, a contactor or any combination thereof.


7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the contactor function is performed by a relay, a semiconductor switch, a solid state relay, a contactor or any combination thereof.


8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the fault current to ground in a photovoltaic array monopole is sensed by differential measurement or calculation of the net current in the two current carrying conductors of a 2-wire photovoltaic array monopole, by measurement of the current in a photovoltaic array connection to earth ground or by detecting the open condition of a fuse located in a ground fault current path.


9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the fault current to ground in a photovoltaic array monopole is sensed by differential measurement or calculation of the net current in the two current carrying conductors of a 2-wire photovoltaic array monopole, by measurement of the current in a photovoltaic array connection to earth ground or by detecting the open condition of a fuse located in a ground fault current path.


10. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the fault current to ground in a photovoltaic array monopole is sensed by differential measurement or calculation of the net current in the two current carrying conductors of a 2-wire photovoltaic array monopole, by measurement of the current in a photovoltaic array connection to earth ground or by detecting the open condition of a fuse located in a ground fault current path.


11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the DC source is a photovoltaic array, a battery, a fuel cell, a reciprocating generator, a turbine generator or combination thereof.


12. The apparatus of claim 1 where the AC load is an electric power grid and the DC-to-AC power converter functions as a grid interactive inverter.

