
The invention provides a device for attaching solar modules that enables an agreeable integration into a roof and which is easy to install. A frame is provided which consists of two lateral frame members, an upper and a lower frame member. Each of the four frame members comprises an area having a rectangular cross section with two long and two narrow sides. The four frame members are interconnected such that the long sides are disposed perpendicular to the main surface of the solar module or the solar cell. It is thereby achieved that the frame is torsion-resistant. Therefore, the solar module can be transported and mounted with comparatively few problems. Such a solar module is attached to a batten of a pitched roof with a projecting portion, in particular by bolting.



1. Solar module for installation in a pitched roof, comprising:
a frame; and a solar cell held by the frame, wherein the frame comprises:
two lateral frame members; and
an upper and a lower frame member which have an area with a rectangular cross section,


wherein the rectangular cross section has two long and two narrow sides, wherein the two lateral, upper and lower frame members are interconnected such that the long sides include a right angle with the solar cell, and
wherein the upper frame member has such a downwardly projecting portion which makes support for the solar module on a batten possible in a pitched roof.


2. Solar module according to claim 1, further comprising a projecting portion of the lower frame member which is disposed parallel to the surface of the solar cell.


3. Solar module according to claim 1, comprising a tongue-and-groove system at the lateral frame members.


4. Solar module according to claim 1, further comprising a gasket which makes a watertight connection of the groove with the tongue possible.


5. Solar module according to claim 1, wherein the frame members consist of fiberglass-reinforced plastics.


6. Solar module according to claim 1, wherein the frame consists of four individual frame members connected by means of corner joints, preferably by positive fit.


7. Pitched roof, according to claim 1, comprising:
a solar module for installation into a pitched roof, comprising:
a frame; and
a solar cell held by the frame, wherein the frame comprises two lateral, an upper and a lower frame members, wherein the upper frame member has a downwardly projecting portion attached with bolts to a batten in a pitched roof.




8. Pitched roof according to claim 7, wherein the lower frame member of a first solar module laterally adjoins an upper frame member of a second solar module so that the lower frame member is thereby held in its position.


9. Pitched roof according to claim 7, further comprising a projecting portion of a lower frame member which rests on an upper frame member such that a protection against the penetration of water is thereby provided between two solar modules.


10. Method for mounting a solar module comprising the step of hooking the solar module of claim 1, with its downwardly projecting portion is hooked into a batten of a pitched roof.

