
Methods and devices are provided for improved rooftop solar module mounting assemblies. In one embodiment, an assembly is provided for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic devices over a roof surface. The assembly comprises of a plurality of elongate metal rods, wherein the elongate metal rods are connected together to define a support grid; a plurality of non-roof penetrating grid supports configured to elevate the support grid above the roof surface; and a plurality of grid-to-roof anchors that secure the entire support grid over the roof surface, wherein the number of grid-to-roof anchors is less than about ¼ of the number of non-roof penetrating grid supports to minimize the number of locations where water may enter the roof surface.



1. An assembly for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules over an installation surface, the assembly comprising:
a plurality of non-roof penetrating grid supports configured to elevate a support grid above the installation surface.



2. An assembly for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules over a roof surface, the assembly comprising:
a plurality of non-roof penetrating grid supports configured to elevate the support grid above the roof surface; and
a plurality of grid-to-roof anchors that secure the entire support grid over the roof surface.



3. The assembly of claim 2 wherein the grid comprises of a rigid structure formed by rigidly coupling the plurality of elongate members together.


4. The assembly of claim 2 wherein the grid comprising a plurality of sections, wherein each section comprise of a plurality of elongate members rigidly connected together.


5. An assembly for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules over a roof surface, the assembly comprising:
a plurality of elongate metal rods, wherein the elongate metal rods are connected together to define a support grid;
a plurality of non-roof penetrating grid supports configured to elevate the support grid above the roof surface; and
a plurality of grid-to-roof anchors that secure the entire support grid over the roof surface, wherein the number of grid-to-roof anchors is less than about ¼ of the number of non-roof penetrating grid supports used to support the modules to minimize the number of locations where water may enter the roof surface.



6. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the elongate metal rods comprises of reinforcing steel bars (rebar).


7. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the elongate metal rods comprises of ribbed steel bars.


8. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the elongate metal rods comprises of solid cylindrical metal bars, approximately ⅛-3 inch diameter, made in varying lengths from 4′ to 20′.


9. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the elongate metal rods are epoxy coated.


10. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the support grid is defined by a plurality of metal rods arranged longitudinally and a plurality of metal rods arrange latitudinally.


11. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the support grid comprises of a rectangular array.


12. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the non-roof penetrating grid supports are located at intersections of longitudinally oriented metal rods and latitudinally oriented metal rods.


13. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the non-roof penetrating grid supports each include a substantially flat bottom surface to engage the roof surface.


14. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the non-roof penetrating grid supports each include a first cutout to receive a longitudinally oriented metal rod and to a second cutout to receive a latitudinally oriented metal rod.


15. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the non-roof penetrating grid supports are adjustable in height to address undulations in the roof surface while maintaining the support grid in a substantially flat configuration.


16. The assembly of claim 5 further comprising a plurality of photovoltaic device mounts to secure the photovoltaic devices over the support grid.


17. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts are mounted on the on-roof penetrating grid supports.


18. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts are mounted on the elongate metal rods that define the support grid.


19. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts are configured to engage two separate photovoltaic devices by securing one edge of one photovoltaic device and one edge of a different photovoltaic device.


20. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts clamp the photovoltaic device between one surface on the mount and one surface on the non-roof penetrating grid support.


21. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts connect the modules to the mounts using hinge connectors to allow for angular motion of the photovoltaic devices.


22. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the photovoltaic device mounts connect the modules to the mounts using press-fit connectors.


23. The assembly of claim 5 wherein the photovoltaic device mount comprises of an elevated section so that each photovoltaic device is mounted at an angle relative to horizontal.

