
A junction box used for making electrical connections to a photovoltaic panel. The junction box has two chambers including a first chamber and a second chamber and a wall common to and separating both chambers. The wall may be adapted to have an electrical connection therethrough. The two lids are adapted to seal respectively the two chambers. The two lids are on opposite sides of the junction box relative to the photovoltaic panel. The two lids may be attachable using different sealing processes to a different level of hermeticity. The first chamber may be adapted to receive a circuit board. The junction box may include supports for mounting a printed circuit board in the first chamber. The second chamber is configured for electrical connection to the photovoltaic panel. A metal heat sink may be bonded inside the first chamber. The first chamber is adapted to receive a circuit board for electrical power conversion, and the metal heat sink is adapted to dissipate heat generated by the circuit board.



1. A junction box used for making electrical connections to a photovoltaic panel, the junction box comprising:
two chambers including a first chamber and a second chamber;
a wall common to and separating said chambers; and
two lids each adapted to respectively seal said two chambers.



2. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said two lids are configured to be on opposite sides of the junction box relative to the photovoltaic panel


3. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said wall is adapted to have an electrical connection therethrough.


4. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said two lids are attachable using different sealing processes.


5. The junction box according to claim 1, further comprising:
one of said two lids adapted to seal said first chamber and the other of said two lids seals the second chamber to with different levels of hermeticity.



6. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said first chamber is adapted to receive a circuit board for electrical power conversion of the power output of the photovoltaic panel.


7. The junction box according to claim 1, further comprising supports for mounting a printed circuit board in said first chamber.


8. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said second chamber is configured for electrical connection to the photovoltaic panel.


9. The junction box of claim 1, wherein said second chamber is configured to include diodes.


10. The junction box according to claim 1, further comprising electrical connection terminals for connecting a circuit to the photovoltaic panel wherein the electrical connection terminals are mounted inside said second chamber.


11. The junction box of claim 1, further comprising a metal heat sink bonded inside said first chamber,


12. The junction box of claim 11, wherein said first chamber is adapted to receive a circuit board for electrical power conversion, and said metal heat sink is adapted to dissipate heat generated by said circuit board.


13. The junction box of claim 11, wherein said heat sink is cast in situ during an injection mold process of manufacture of the junction box.


14. The junction box of claim 11, wherein said metal heat sink includes a dovetail structure adapted to prevent mutual separation of said metal heat sink from said junction box.


15. The junction box of claim 14, wherein said dovetail structure is hollow.


16. The junction box of claim 11, further comprising a pad adapted to provide thermal conduction and electrical insulation between said circuit board and said metal heat sink.


17. An electrically insulating junction box used for making electrical connections to a photovoltaic panel, the junction box comprising:
a metal heat sink bonded in situ inside a first chamber, wherein said first chamber is adapted to receive a circuit board for electrical power conversion; and a metal heat sink is adapted to dissipate heat generated by said circuit board.



18. The electrically insulating junction box of claim 17, further comprising:
two chambers including a first chamber and a second chamber;
a wall common to and separating said chambers; and
two lids each adapted to respectively seal said two chambers.



19. The electrically insulating junction box of claim 17, wherein said metal heat sink includes a dovetail structure adapted to prevent mutual separation of said metal heat sink from the junction box.


20. The electrically insulating junction box of claim 17, wherein said wall is adapted to have an electrical connection therethrough

