
A photovoltaic system that includes a base; a photovoltaic material having an active area mounted to the base; and a protective covering mounted in the base and covering the photovoltaic material, the protective covering having a surface area larger than that of the active area and including an enhancement is presented. In some embodiments, the enhancement can include a lens area. In some embodiments, the enhancement can include a display area. Some embodiments further include a reflective layer between the protective covering and the photovoltaic material.



1. An apparatus, comprised of:
a base;
a photovoltaic material having an active area mounted to the base; and
a protective cover mounted on the base and covering the photovoltaic material, the protective cover having a surface area larger than that of the active area and including an enhancement.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the enhancement includes a lens area that concentrates light onto the photovoltaic material.


3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the lens area includes Fresnel zones.


4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the lens area includes at least two edges of the protective covering.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the enhancement includes a display.


6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the display includes a liquid crystal display.


7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the display includes a light emitting diode or organic light emitting diode.


8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the display includes an electrophoretic display.


9. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the display is located along one edge of the protective cover and the enhancement further includes a lens area located on at least two other edges of the protective covering.


10. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the display is driven by electronics that monitors power output from the photovoltaic material.


11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the protective covering includes an anti-reflective film.


12. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the protective covering has a transmittance at wavelengths where the photovoltaic material is sensitive.


13. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the protective covering has an index of refraction chosen to enhance internal reflection.


14. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a reflective layer between the photovoltaic material and the protective cover.


15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the reflective layer reflects light at one or more wavelengths such that the apparatus has a uniform coloration.


16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the reflective layer is patterned so that a graphic display appears on the apparatus.


17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the reflective layer includes an electrophoretic display.


18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the electrophoretic display can be utilized to display information to a user.


19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the electrophoretic display can be utilized to change an appearance of the apparatus.


20. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the electrophoretic display is pixilated.


21. A method of providing a photovoltaic system comprised of:
mounting a photovoltaic material in a base;
covering the photovoltaic material with an enhanced cover.



22. The method of claim 21, wherein covering the photovoltaic material includes providing a lens area in the enhanced cover that concentrates light onto the photovoltaic material.


23. The method of claim 22, wherein the lens area includes Fresnel zones.


24. The method of claim 22, wherein the lens area covers at least two edges of the enhanced cover.


25. The method of claim 21, wherein covering the photovoltaic material includes providing a display in the enhanced cover.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein the display includes a liquid crystal display.


27. The method of claim 25, wherein the display includes a light emitting diode or organic light emitting diode.


28. The method of claim 25, wherein the display includes an electrophoretic display.


29. The method of claim 25, wherein the display is located along one edge of the protective cover.


30. The method of claim 25, further including providing electronics that monitors power output from the photovoltaic material and drives the display.


31. The method of claim 21, further including providing an anti-reflective film on the enhanced cover.


32. The method of claim 21, further including forming the enhanced cover from a material that has a transmittance at wavelengths where the photovoltaic material is sensitive.


33. The method of claim 21, further including forming the enhanced cover from a material with an index of refraction chosen to enhance internal reflection.


34. The method of claim 21, further including providing a reflective layer between the photovoltaic material and the enhanced cover.


35. The method of claim 34, wherein the reflective layer reflects light at one or more wavelengths such that a uniform coloration is observed from the enhanced cover.


36. The method of claim 34, wherein the reflective layer is patterned so that a graphic display appears through the enhanced cover.


37. The method of claim 14, wherein the reflective layer includes an electrophoretic display.


38. The method of claim 37, wherein the electrophoretic display can be utilized to display information to a user.


39. The method of claim 37, wherein the electrophoretic display can be utilized to change an appearance of the apparatus.


40. The method of claim 37, wherein the electrophoretic display is pixilated. 

