
A watertight connection includes a male side and female side pair of terminal fittings. Each of the terminal fittings is mounted to an end part of an electrical line. Plug housings having male side and female side terminal fittings of two poles are correspondingly mounted, male side-to-male side and female side-to-female side. Insulation members each house a rear end part of a plug housing and an end part of an electrical lines. A sealing material member prevents moisture from penetrating into the insulation member. Openings, which expose the front end part of each plug housing outside of the insulation member, are formed in an inner wall surface of the insulation member. An outer circumferential surface of the rear end part of each of the plug housings is brought into close contact with the sealing material member to couple the plug housings and the insulation member in a watertight state.



1. A watertight connector, comprising:
a male side plug and a female side plug, each of which comprises:
a pair of terminal fittings, wherein a mating portion that mates with a counterpart side is provided to a tip of each terminal fitting, wherein each of the terminal fittings is mounted to an end part of an electrical line;
a plug housing,
an insulation member, which encloses at least a rear end part of the plug housing and the end parts of electrical lines; and
a watertight member, which prevents moisture from penetrating into the insulation member;

wherein
the watertight member comprises a tubular sealing material member that is mounted such that it spans outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the plug housing;

a rear end part of the plug housing, which holds the pair of terminal fittings, is housed in an inner wall surface which is formed in a hollow of the insulation member and an openings in the insulation member exposes a front end part of the plug housing to the outside of the insulation member; and
the inner wall surface of the insulation member, the outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the rear end part of the plug housing are brought into close contact with the sealing material member, thereby coupling the plug housing and the insulation member in a watertight state.




2. A watertight connector according to claim 1, wherein
the insulation member configured for mounting to either of the male side plug housing and the female side plug housing; and
each of the mating parts of the male side and female side plug housings are configured for mating with and connecting to only a terminal fitting of a corresponding polarity.



3. A watertight connector according to claim 1, wherein the insulation member comprises an insulation casing, which is provided with a support wall that has a tip edge that makes contact with an outer circumferential surface of the sealing material member at the inner wall surface in the vicinity of the opening, and outer circumferential surfaces of the support wall and the rear end part of the plug housing make close contact with the sealing material, thereby coupling the plug housing and the insulation casing in a watertight state.


4. A watertight connector according to claim 3, wherein an outer circumferential surface of the male side plug housing and an outer circumferential surface of the female side plug housing each pinch a corresponding sealing material member against the support wall, thereby coupling the corresponding plug housing and the corresponding insulation casing in the watertight state.


5. A watertight connector according to claim 1, wherein
the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.



6. A photovoltaic power generating apparatus that has a plurality of solar panels, each solar panel comprising photovoltaic cells, wherein output terminals that each comprise a pair of two poles for each of the solar panels are connected via a watertight connector and a cable, and the electric power generated by the plurality of solar panels is output collectively, wherein
a watertight connector that comprises a male side plug and a female side plug, each of which comprises:
pair of terminal fittings, wherein a mating portion that mates with a counterpart side is provided to a tip of the terminal fitting, wherein each of the terminal fittings is mounted to an end part of an electrical line;
a plug housing, for mounting the terminal fittings;
an insulation member, which encloses at least a rear end part of the plug housing and the end parts of the electrical lines; and
a watertight member, which prevents moisture from penetrating into the insulation member;

wherein
the watertight member comprises a tubular sealing material member that is mounted such that it spans the outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the plug housing;
the rear end part of the plug housing, which holds the pair of terminal fittings, is housed in an inner wall surface; which is formed in a hollow of the insulation member, and an opening in the insulation member externally exposes the insulation member, are formed in a front end part of the plug housing; and
the inner wall surface of the insulation member; the outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the rear end part of the plug housing are brought into close contact with the sealing material member, thereby coupling the plug housing and the insulation member in a watertight state; and
in each of the solar panels, the male side plug and the cable are connected to one of the output terminals and the female side plug cables are connected to the other output terminal, whereby adjacent solar panels are connected to one another by the male side plug on one side and the female side plug on the other side; and
in each of the solar panels, output terminals of the same polarity are connected to one via the male side plug and the female side plug, which are mated to one another, and the solar panels are electrically connected in parallel.



7. A photovoltaic power generating apparatus that comprises a plurality of solar panel groups, each of which is formed by connecting a plurality of the solar panels in parallel, and is formed by connecting each of the solar panel groups with a harness, wherein
a male side or a female side plug is provided to a terminal of each of the solar panel groups;
the female side or male side plug, which mates with a corresponding male side or female side plug, is provided in the same number as the solar panel groups to the harness; and
the harness connects each of the solar panel groups in series.



8. A watertight connector according to claim 2, wherein the insulation member comprises an insulation casing, which is provided with a support wall that has a tip edge that makes contact with all outer circumferential surface of the sealing material member at the inner wall surface in the vicinity of the opening, and outer circumferential surfaces of the support wall and the rear end part of the plug housing make close contact with the sealing material, thereby coupling the plug housing and the insulation casing in a watertight state.


9. A watertight connector according to claim 8, wherein an outer circumferential surface of the male side plug housing and an outer circumferential surface of the female side plug housing each pinch a corresponding sealing material member against the support wall, thereby coupling the corresponding plug housing and the corresponding insulation casing in the watertight state.


10. A watertight connector according to claim 2, wherein the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.


11. A watertight connector according to claim 3, wherein the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.


12. A watertight connector according to claim 4, wherein the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.


13. A watertight connector according to claim 8, wherein the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.


14. A watertight connector according to claim 9, wherein the sealing material member is configured for mounting to both the terminal fittings and the plug housing on either of the male side or the female side.


15. A watertight connector, comprising:
at least one of a male side plug and a female side plug, each of which comprises:
a pair of terminal fittings, wherein a mating portion that mates with a counterpart side is provided to a tip of each terminal fitting, wherein each of the terminal fittings is mounted to an end part of an electrical line;
a plug housing for mounting the terminal fittings;
an insulation member, which encloses at least a rear end part of the plug housing and the end parts of electrical lines; and
a watertight member, which prevents moisture from penetrating into the insulation member;

wherein
the watertight member comprises a tubular sealing material member that is mounted such that it spans outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the plug housing;
a rear end part of the plug housing, which holds the pair of terminal fittings, is housed in an inner wall surface which is formed in a hollow of the insulation member and an opening in the insulation member exposes a front end part of the plug housing to the outside of the insulation member; and
the inner wall surface of the insulation member, the outer circumferential surfaces of the electrical wiring lines and the rear end part of the plug housing are brought into close contact with the sealing material member, thereby coupling the plug housing and the insulation member in a watertight state.


