
Systems and methods for disposing and supporting a solar panel array are disclosed. The embodiments comprise various combinations of cables, support columns, and pod constructions in which to support solar panels. The solar panels can incorporate single or dual tracking capabilities to enhance sunlight capture. The embodiments encourage dual land use in which installation of the systems minimizes disruption of the underlying ground. Supplemental power may be provided by vertical axis windmills integrated with the columns. Special installations of the system can include systems mounted over structures such as parking lots, roads and aqueducts. Simplified support systems with a minimum number of structural elements can be used to create effective support for solar panel arrays of varying size and shapes. These simplified systems minimize material requirements and labor for installation of the systems.



1. A method of supporting a solar panel array comprising:
providing a plurality of columns including a pair of spaced first and second columns, and a pair of spaced third and fourth columns;
providing a first support cable connected between the first and second columns;
providing a second support cable connected between the third and a fourth columns;
disposing the first support cable and the second support cable such that the cables are generally parallel in their respective axial directions;
securing one or more solar panel receivers to the first support cable and the second support cable;
securing a plurality of solar panels to each panel receiver;
providing a plurality of longitudinal anchor lines connected at first ends to the columns and secured at second ends in the ground;
wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight; and
wherein the first and second columns are longer than the third and fourth columns.



2. The method of claim 1 wherein each solar panel receiver comprises:
a pair of main struts secured to the cables and extending substantially perpendicular thereto; and
a pair of longitudinal struts extending between and interconnecting the main struts, the longitudinal struts extending substantially parallel with the first and second cables.



3. The method of claim 1 wherein:
a pair of panel receivers is mounted between the columns, and the panel receivers having a v-shaped configuration when viewing the panel receivers at an elevation view.



4. The method of claim 3 wherein:
the v-shaped configuration is formed by mounting of the panel receivers between the columns including a bend point located at a center location between the columns to which the cables are mounted.



5. A system for supporting a solar panel array, the system comprising:
two pairs of columns, each pair having a first column and a second column;
a first cable suspended between the first columns;
a second cable suspended between the second columns;
a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panel receivers being secured to each of the two cables;
a plurality of anchor lines connected to the first and second columns and having lower ends secured to the ground; and
wherein each panel receiver includes a number of main struts mounted to the first and second cables, and a number of longitudinal struts interconnecting the main struts;
wherein the first columns are long columns and the second columns are shorter columns; and
wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight.



6. The system of claim 5 wherein:
each solar panel receiver comprises a pair of main struts secured to the first and second cables and extending substantially perpendicular thereto, and a pair of longitudinal struts extending between and interconnecting the main struts, the longitudinal struts extending substantially parallel with the first and second cables.



7. The system of claim 5 wherein:
a pair of panel receivers is mounted between the columns, and the panel receivers having a v-shaped configuration when viewing the panel receivers at an elevation view.



8. The system of claim 5 wherein:
the v-shaped configuration is formed by mounting of the panel receivers between the columns including a bend point located at a center location between the columns to which the cables are mounted.



9. The system of claim 5 further including:
a plurality of transverse cables each having first ends connected to one of said columns, and each having second ends anchored in the ground, the transverse cables extending substantially perpendicular to said first and second cables.



10. A system for supporting a solar panel array, the system comprising:
a plurality of columns;
a first cable suspended between a pair of first columns;
a second cable suspended between a pair of second columns;
a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panels receivers being secured to each of the two cables;
wherein at least two of the columns are longer than the other columns;
wherein at least one of the cables are further secured to anchoring lines having first ends connected to upper ends of at least two columns and second ends anchored in the ground; and
a stability cable extending between at least one pair of columns, said stability cable extending substantially perpendicular to the first and second cables; and
wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight.



11. The system of claim 10 wherein:
each solar panel receiver comprises a pair of main struts secured to the first and second cables and extending substantially perpendicular thereto, and a pair of longitudinal struts extending between and interconnecting the main struts, the longitudinal struts extending substantially parallel with the first and second cables.



12. The system of claim 10 wherein:
a pair of panel receivers is mounted between the columns, and the panel receivers having a v-shaped configuration when viewing the panel receivers at an elevation view.



13. The system of claim 10 wherein:
the v-shaped configuration is formed by mounting of the panel receivers between the columns including a bend point located at a center location between the columns to which the cables are mounted.



14. The system of claim 10 further including:
a plurality of transverse cables each having first ends connected to one of said columns, and each having second ends anchored in the ground, the transverse cables extending substantially perpendicular to said first and second cables.



15. A system for supporting a solar panel array, the system comprising: two pairs of columns, each pair having a first column and a second column; a first cable suspended between the first columns; a second cable suspended between the second columns; a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panel receivers being secured to each of the two cables; a plurality of anchor lines connected to the first and second columns and having lower ends secured to the ground; at least one pair of crossing diagonal cables extending between and connected to adjacent first and second columns and extending substantially perpendicular to said first and second cables; and wherein each panel receiver includes a number of main struts mounted to the first and second cables, and a number of longitudinal struts interconnecting the main struts; and wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight.


16. A system, as claimed in claim 15, further including:
at least one stability cable interconnecting upper ends of adjacent first and second columns.



17. A system, as claimed in claim 15, wherein:
said anchor lines extend substantially parallel to second first and second cables in a longitudinal direction.



18. The system of claim 15 further including:
a plurality of transverse cables each having first ends connected to one of said columns, and each having second ends anchored in the ground, the transverse cables extending substantially perpendicular to said first and second cables.



19. A system for supporting a solar panel array, the system comprising:
two pairs of columns, each pair having a first column and a second column;
a first cable suspended between the first columns; a second cable suspended between the second columns;
a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panel receivers being secured to each of the two cables; a plurality of anchor lines connected to the first and second columns and having lower ends secured to the ground;
at least one pair of diagonal cables extending between and connected to adjacent first or second columns and extending substantially parallel to said first and second cables; and wherein each panel receiver includes a number of main struts mounted to the first and second cables, and a number of longitudinal struts interconnecting the main struts; and
wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight.



20. A system for supporting a solar panel array, said system comprising:
at least two pairs of columns, each pair having a first column and a second column;
a first upper diagonal cable suspended between the first columns;
a second upper diagonal cable suspended between the second columns;
a first lower diagonal cable suspended between the first columns;
a second lower diagonal cable suspended between the second columns;
a first connecting plate for interconnecting the first upper diagonal cable and the first lower diagonal cable;
a second connecting plate for interconnecting the second upper diagonal cable and the second lower diagonal cable;
a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panel receivers being secured to each of the first and second upper diagonal cables;
a plurality of anchor lines connected to the first and second columns and having lower ends secured to the ground; and wherein
each panel receiver includes a number of mains struts mounted to the first and second cables, wherein the solar panels are mounted at a desired angle with respect to incident sunlight according to the an angle created by the first and second upper diagonal cables.



21. A system as claimed in claim 20, further including:
a plurality of diagonal crossing cables extending transversely between a pair of the columns.



22. A system as claimed in claim 20, further including:
at least one upper transverse stability cable interconnecting upper ends of at least one pair of the columns.



23. A system as claimed in claim 20, further including:
at least one grade cable extending between a lower end of one of said anchor lines and a lower end of said first or second columns.



24. A system for supporting a solar panel array, the system comprising:
two pairs of columns, each pair having a first column and a second column;
a first cable suspended between the first columns;
a second cable suspended between the second columns;
at least one anchoring device secured to the ground outside of the columns, wherein at least one of the first cable and the second cable is secured to the anchoring device;
a plurality of panel receivers, each adapted for receiving a number of solar panels, the panel receivers being secured to each of the two cables, each panel receiver including a number of struts;
wherein said struts extend substantially perpendicular to the first and second cables; and
wherein said struts are spaced along a length of the array.



25. A system as claimed in claim 24 wherein:
said panel receivers are angled for optimum capture of sunlight.


