
A power management system includes a plurality of monitors, communicatively coupled together over a communications medium. Each respective monitor of the plurality of monitors is configured to capture power factor (PF) data at a corresponding distribution segment for calculation of a PF correction.



1. A power management system comprising:
a plurality of monitors, communicatively coupled together over a communications medium, each respective monitor of the plurality of monitors configured to capture power factor (PF) data at a corresponding distribution segment for calculation of a PF correction.



2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a master grid controller, coupled to the plurality of monitors and to a distribution grid at a high voltage, wherein the respective monitor is configured to provide the PF data to the master grid controller over the communications medium and the master grid controller is configured to receive the PF data and calculate the PF correction.


3. The system of claim 2 wherein the master grid controller is configured to provide the PF correction over the communications medium.


4. The system of claim 3 wherein the PF correction is received by a local solar system, coupled to the distribution segment, applying the PF correction to optimize the PF at the distribution segment.


5. The system of claim 4 wherein the PF correction is received by a controller in a local solar system, coupled to the distribution segment, the controller controlling an inverter connected to a solar panel array.


6. The system of claim 5 wherein the master grid controller is configured to provide the PF correction to the controller.


7. The system of claim 2 wherein the master grid controller is configured to receive the PF data, calculate the PF correction, and provide the PF correction to a local solar system.


8. The system of claim 2 wherein at least one of the plurality of monitors is configured to calculate the PF correction.


9. The system of claim 8 wherein the master grid controller does not calculate the PF correction.


10. The system of claim 2 wherein the plurality of monitors include a first monitor coupled to a grid distribution segment at a medium to high voltage level, a second monitor coupled to a first local distribution segment at a first low voltage level, and a third monitor coupled to second local distribution segment at a second low voltage level.


11. The system of claim 10 wherein the PF correction for the second local distribution segment is calculated by at least the second monitor.


12. The system of claim 10 wherein the grid distribution segment is coupled to the first local distribution segment by a first transformer.


13. The system of claim 10 wherein the grid distribution segment is coupled to the second local distribution segment by a three phase transformer.


14. The system of claim 2 wherein the PF correction includes performance of a phase shift.


15. The system of claim 2 wherein the PF correction includes a graph of a desired waveform.


16. The system of claim 2 wherein the system includes polyphase electric power having a first phase with a high load compared to a second phase, the first phase receiving power to compensate for the high load and to balance the first phase and the second phase.


17. The system of claim 16 wherein the first phase receives the power without a need to calculate the PF correction.


18. A system comprising:
a first controller coupled to a grid distribution segment at a medium to high voltage level;
a second controller coupled to a first local distribution segment at a first low voltage level to provide power to residential subdivision; and
a third controller coupled to second local distribution segment at a second low voltage level to provide power to a commercial subdivision;
wherein the first controller, the second controller, and the third controller are communicatively coupled together and to a master controller over a communications medium, each of the first controller, the second controller, and the third controller configured to capture local power factor (PF) data at a corresponding distribution segment and to provide the PF data to the master controller, the master controller configured to calculate a PF correction for the corresponding distribution segment and to provide the PF correction to a solar system connected to the corresponding distribution segment to optimize the PF.



19. A method of power management comprising:
analyzing local power factor (PF) data for a plurality of distribution segments in an electric power grid;
calculating a PF correction for each respective distribution segment of the plurality of distribution segments to optimize the PF in the respective distribution segment;
transmitting the PF correction to a controller in a local solar system coupled to the respective distribution segment; and
repeating the analyzing, the calculating, and the transmitting to synchronously optimize the PF in real time.



20. The method of claim 19 wherein the analyzing further comprises monitoring the PF data from a plurality of locations at various voltage levels in the electric power grid. 

