
A photovoltaic module ground mounting system can include a collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework.



1. A collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework comprising:
two substantially parallel supporting beams;
at least two substantially parallel photovoltaic module rails each configured to secure a portion of a photovoltaic module, wherein each of the module rails is connected to one of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the first end of the rail and connected to the other of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the second end of the rail;
wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the module rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams.




2. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the supporting beams comprise steel.


3. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the supporting beams comprise aluminum.


4. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic module rails comprise steel.


5. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic module rails comprise aluminum.


6. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework is configured to position an array of a plurality of photovoltaic modules in a plurality of rows and columns.


7. The photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 6, wherein the photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework is configured to position an array of 15 photovoltaic modules in a configuration comprising 3 rows of modules and 5 columns of modules.


8. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, further comprising a lock that locks the module rails in an orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams.


9. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 8, wherein the lock can unlock to allow the module rails to be moved to an orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams.


10. A photovoltaic module ground mounting system comprising:
a supporting column comprising an upper end, wherein the supporting column can be installed perpendicular to a surface;
a bracket adjacent to the upper end of the supporting column;
a collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework configured to be mounted adjacent to the bracket, the module mounting assembly framework comprising:
two substantially parallel supporting beams;
at least two substantially parallel photovoltaic module rails each configured to secure a portion of a photovoltaic module, wherein each of the module rails is connected to one of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the first end of the rail and connected to the other of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the second end of the rail;
wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the module rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams.




11. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the supporting beams comprise steel.


12. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the supporting beams comprise aluminum.


13. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the photovoltaic module rails comprise steel.


14. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the photovoltaic module rails comprise aluminum.


15. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework is configured to position an array of a plurality of photovoltaic modules in a plurality of rows and columns.


16. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework is configured to position an array of 15 photovoltaic modules in a configuration comprising 3 rows of modules and 5 columns of modules.


17. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the supporting column comprises steel.


18. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the supporting column comprises aluminum.


19. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the bracket comprises steel.


20. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the bracket comprises aluminum.


21. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the bracket can be positioned to provide a module mounting position tilted with respect to the plane of a surface adjacent to which the supporting column can be installed.


22. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, further comprising a shipping cradle configured to conform to and encase the module mounting assembly framework in the collapsed position.


23. A method of installing a photovoltaic module mounting system comprising the steps of:
positioning a supporting column comprising a bracket adjacent to a surface, wherein the bracket is adjacent to the upper end of the supporting column;
attaching a collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework to the bracket, wherein the collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework comprises:
two substantially parallel supporting beams;
two substantially parallel supporting beams;
at least two substantially parallel photovoltaic module rails each configured to secure a portion of a photovoltaic module, wherein each of the module rails is connected to one of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the first end of the rail and connected to the other of the supporting beams at a position on the rail proximate to the second end of the rail;

wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the module rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams; and
mounting a photovoltaic module to the collapsible photovoltaic module mounting framework assembly.



24. The method of claim 23, wherein the supporting beam comprises steel.


25. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of attaching a photovoltaic module to a photovoltaic module rail of the module mounting assembly framework.


26. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of adjusting the bracket to provide a module mounting position tilted compared to the surface. 

