
A photovoltaic device including at least one photovoltaic cell and a transformerless inverter electrically coupled to the at least one photovoltaic cell. The at least one photovoltaic cell and the transformerless inverter are integrated into a photovoltaic package.



1. A photovoltaic device, comprising:
at least one photovoltaic cell; and
a transformerless inverter electrically coupled to the at least one photovoltaic cell,
wherein the at least one photovoltaic cell and the transformerless inverter are integrated into a photovoltaic package.



2. The device of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic package comprises a low-profile laminate or non-laminate package.


3. The device of claim 2, wherein the low-profile package is less than 11 mm thick.


4. The device of claim 3, wherein the low-profile package is less than 5 mm thick.


5. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one photovoltaic cell is a thin-film photovoltaic cell.


6. The device of claim 5, further comprising a ceramic capacitor electrically coupled to a string of the thin-film photovoltaic cells which include the at least one photovoltaic cell.


7. The device of claim 6, wherein the transformerless inverter comprises a transformerless buck converter.


8. The device of claim 7, wherein the transformerless buck converter comprises at least one of a synchronous buck converter or an asynchronous buck converter.


9. The device of claim 7, further comprising a controller coupled to the transformerless buck converter, the controller comprising a peak power tracker and at least one of a discontinuous conduction mode controller or a boundary conduction mode controller.


10. The device of claim 9, wherein the transformerless buck converter comprises at least one transistor, at least one diode, and at least one inductor for asynchronous operation; or at least two transistors and at least one inductor for synchronous operation.


11. The device of claim 10, wherein the at least one inductor is integrated onto a printed circuit board or at least one layer of the package.


12. The device of claim 9, wherein the transformerless inverter further comprises a transformerless boost converter electrically coupled to the controller.


13. The device of claim 7, wherein the transformerless inverter comprises a transformerless buck-boost converter.


14. A method of operating a photovoltaic device, comprising:
providing an input power from a photovoltaic cell to a transformerless DC/DC converter;
operating the transformerless DC/DC converter in at least one of a discontinuous conduction mode or a boundary conduction mode; and
providing an output power from the transformerless DC/DC converter to an unfolder.



15. The method of claim 14, wherein the transformerless DC/DC converter comprises a transformerless buck converter.


16. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of operating comprises operating the transformerless buck converter in discontinuous conduction mode.


17. The method of claim 16, wherein operating the transformerless buck converter in discontinuous conduction mode comprises ending a switching period of the transformerless buck converter after an inductor current of the transformerless buck converter reaches zero.


18. The method of claim 17, wherein the transformerless buck converter comprises at least one transistor, at least one diode, and at least two integrated inductors.


19. The method of claim 17, further comprising controlling a duty cycle of the switching period in order to shape an output of the unfolder.


20. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of operating comprises operating the transformerless buck converter in boundary conduction mode.


21. The method of claim 20, wherein operating the transformerless buck converter in boundary conduction mode comprises ending a switching period of the transformerless buck converter when a current of one of the at least two integrated inductors reaches zero.


22. The method of claim 15, wherein the transformerless DC/DC converter further comprises a transformerless boost converter.


23. The method of claim 22, wherein the transformerless buck converter and the transformerless boost converter together comprise at least two transistors controlled by a controller, and wherein the transformerless buck converter and the transformerless boost converter operate in different modes.


24. The method of claim 14, wherein the transformerless DC/DC converter further comprises a transformerless buck-boost converter.


25. The method of claim 14, wherein the photovoltaic cell, the transformerless DC/DC converter, and the unfolder comprise a photovoltaic package less than 11 mm thick.


26. A photovoltaic circuit, comprising:
at least one photovoltaic cell;
a storage capacitor electrically coupled to the at least one photovoltaic cell;
a transformerless DC/DC converter electrically coupled to the storage capacitor;
an electromagnetic interference (EMI) filter electrically coupled to the transformerless DC/DC converter;
an unfolder electrically coupled to the EMI filter; and
a controller electrically coupled to the transformerless DC/DC converter.



27. The circuit of claim 26, wherein the at least one photovoltaic cell, the storage capacitor, the transformerless DC/DC converter, the EMI filter, the unfolder, and the controller are integrated into a photovoltaic package.


28. The circuit of claim 27, wherein the photovoltaic package comprises a low-profile laminate or non-laminate package.


29. The circuit of claim 28, wherein the low-profile package is less than 11 mm thick.


30. The circuit of claim 29, wherein the low-profile package is less than 5 mm thick.


31. The circuit of claim 27, wherein the DC/DC converter comprises a buck converter.


32. The circuit of claim 31, wherein the DC/DC converter further comprises a boost converter, and wherein the DC/DC converter comprises at least two transistors.


33. The circuit of claim 27, wherein the DC/DC converter comprises a buck-boost converter.


34. The circuit of claim 31, further comprising a controller coupled to the buck converter, the controller comprising a maximum power point tracker and at least one of a discontinuous conduction mode controller or a boundary conduction mode controller.


35. The circuit of claim 34, wherein the controller partially comprises digital circuitry.


36. The circuit of claim 28, wherein the EMI filter comprises at least one inductor integrated into a printed circuit board.


37. The circuit of claim 28, wherein components of the transformerless DC/DC converter, the EMI filter, or the unfolder are integrated onto at least one of a printed circuit board, a flex circuit, a substrate, or back barrier of the package. 

