
The present invention provides apparatuses for photovoltaic modules, including frameless photovoltaic modules, to structural supports, such as various architectural elements. In addition, the present invention provides methods of mounting photovoltaic modules using the various apparatuses.



1. A mounting apparatus for a photovoltaic module comprising:
(a) a first surface having an interface for attachment to the photovoltaic module;
(b) a first support leg coupled to and extending from the first surface opposite the interface;
(c) a first support element coupled to and extending from the first support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface;
(d) a second support leg coupled to and extending from the first surface opposite the interface; and
(e) a second support element coupled to and extending from the second support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface,
wherein the first support element and the second support element form a channel.



2. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic module is a frameless photovoltaic module.


3. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the interface comprises one or more spacers.


4. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the interface comprises an adhesive.


5. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second support leg extends beyond the first support leg.


6. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein
the first support leg is formed integral with the first surface;
the first support element is formed integral with the first support leg;
the second support leg is formed integral with the first surface; and
the second support element is formed integral with the second support leg.



7. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first support element is not attached to the second support element or the second support leg.


8. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first support element, the second support leg and the second support element form a channel.


9. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the interface of the first surface is between about 0.1 to about 6 inches by about 0.7 to about 14 inches in dimension.


10. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first leg is between about 0.01 to about 2 inches in length.


11. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second leg is between about 0.02 to about 12 inches in length.


12. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first support element is between about 0.1 to about 4 inches by about 0.7 to about 14 inches in dimension.


13. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second support element is between about 0.1 to about 6 inches by about 0.7 to about 14 inches in dimension.


14. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and/or second support elements further comprise a cushion pad.


15. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a module shim clip within the channel.


16. The mounting apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises aluminum or steel or a polymer.


17. A supported photovoltaic module, comprising:
(a) a structural support; and
(b) a photovoltaic module mounted to said structural support via a mounting apparatus comprising
(i) a first surface having an interface attached to the photovoltaic module;
(ii) a first support leg coupled to and extending from the first surface opposite the interface;
(iii) a first support element coupled to and extending from the first support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface;
(iv) a second support leg coupled to and extending from the first surface opposite the interface; and
(v) a second support element coupled to and extending from the second support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface,

wherein the first support element and the second support element form a channel, and wherein at least the first support element is in contact with the structural support.



18. A method of mounting a photovoltaic module to a structural support, comprising:
(a) providing a photovoltaic module;
(b) attaching at least one mounting apparatus to the photovoltaic module via an interface of a first surface of the apparatus, the apparatus comprising
(i) a first support leg extending from the first surface opposite the interface;
(ii) a first support element extending from the first support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface;
(iii) a second support leg extending from the first surface opposite the interface; and
(iv) a second support element extending from the second support leg and oriented substantially parallel to the first surface, wherein the first support element and the second support element form a channel; and

(c) mounting the photovoltaic module to the structural support by contacting at least the first support element to the structural support.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein the providing comprises providing a frameless photovoltaic module.


20. The method of claim 18, wherein the attaching comprises adhering the mounting apparatus to the photovoltaic module via an adhesive on the interface of the first surface of the apparatus. 

