
A method and an apparatus for setting up synchronization, with a power grid, of an inverter having a photovoltaic generator as a primary energy source is disclosed. The inverter is supplied with the energy from an additional energy source connected in parallel with input terminals of the inverter, wherein the additional energy source is a DC energy source operated independent from the primary energy source. The frequency, phase relationship and output voltage of the inverter supplied from the additional DC energy source are matched to the frequency, phase relationship and output voltage of the power grid, whereafter the primary energy source is connected to the inverter. With this method, an inverter dimensioned for a permissible open-circuit voltage can also be used under operating conditions, without requiring modifications of the circuitry of the primary energy source.



1. A method for setting up synchronization, with a power grid, of an inverter having a photovoltaic generator as a primary energy source, comprising the steps of:
supplying the inverter with the energy from an additional energy source connected in parallel with input terminals of the inverter, wherein the additional energy source is a DC energy source operated independent from the primary energy source,
adapting frequency, phase relationship and output voltage of the inverter supplied from the additional DC energy source to frequency, phase relationship and output voltage of the power grid, and
after adaptation, connecting the primary energy source to the inverter.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of disconnecting the additional DC energy source from the inverter after the adaptation and before connecting the primary energy source to the inverter.


3. The method of claim 1, wherein the additional DC energy source is permanently connected to the inverter by an intermediate blocking diode.


4. The method of claim 2, wherein after the adaptation of the frequency and phase relationship of the inverter, connecting electrical output terminals of the inverter to the power grid, before the additional DC energy source is disconnected from the inverter.


5. The method of claim 2, wherein the additional DC energy source is connected to the input terminals of the inverter via a switching device.


6. The method of claim 5, wherein the switching device connects the photovoltaic generator as primary energy source to the inverter at the same time the additional DC current source is disconnected from the inverter.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein the additional DC energy source is supplied with electric power from the power grid.


8. The method of claim 1, wherein the additional DC energy source is an electric energy storage device.


9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of:
connecting the inverter to the power grid by actuating a switching element interconnected between the inverter and the power grid, and
disconnecting the additional DC energy source from the power grid by way of auxiliary contacts.



10. The method of claim 1, wherein power supplied by the additional DC energy source is less than 10% of a nominal power of the inverter.


11. The method of claim 1, wherein for a photovoltaic generator having an output power rating of greater than 100 kW, power supplied by the additional DC energy source is less than 1% of a nominal power of the inverter.


12. The method of claim 1, characterized in that the additional DC energy source is a second inverter of a second photovoltaic generator, which is not disconnected from the power grid and which continues to operate.


13. An apparatus for setting up synchronization, with a power grid, of an inverter having a photovoltaic generator as a primary energy source, the apparatus comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic modules representing a primary energy source, an inverter having input terminals and output terminals, the input terminals connected to the plurality of photovoltaic modules supplying a DC input voltage and a DC input current to the input terminals,
an additional DC current source configured for parallel connection with the input terminals of the inverter,
a control device which controls with the additional DC current source an output voltage at the output terminals of the inverter, until frequency, phase relationship and voltage of the power grid is present at the output terminals of the inverter, and
a switch configured to connect the output terminals of the inverter to the power grid.



14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the additional DC energy source is operable independent of the primary energy source and provides a DC voltage between 300 V and 800 V.


15. Apparatus according to claim 13, characterized in that the additional DC energy source is housed in a housing of the inverter.

