
A mounting system for securing a photovoltaic device to a surface is provided in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. The mounting system includes one or more mounting members for securing an inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface. The mounting members are configured so the inactive area is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process. In an exemplary embodiment, the mounting system includes a unique configuration of mounting members for securing the photovoltaic device against the surface during a predetermined load condition imposed upon the photovoltaic device.



1. A mounting system for securing a photovoltaic device against a surface, the mounting system comprising a mounting member for securing an inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface, the mounting member being configured so the inactive area is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


2. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the surface is a planar surface.


3. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the mounting member utilizes an interference-fit engagement for securing the inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface.


4. The mounting system of claim 3, further comprising a plurality of mounting members spaced about the inactive area, at least two of which utilize an interference-fit engagement, each of the mounting members being configured so a portion of the inactive area is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


5. The mounting system of claim 4, wherein the mounting members have a configuration to secure the inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface during a predetermined load condition imposed on the photovoltaic device.


6. The mounting system of claim 4, further comprising a substrate that the photovoltaic device is secured thereto, wherein the mounting members are spaced about the substrate for securing the substrate to the surface, each of the mounting members being configured so a portion of the substrate is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


7. The mounting system of claim 6, further comprising an interface layer disposed between the photovoltaic device and the substrate.


8. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the inactive area of the photovoltaic device further includes a cutout.


9. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the mounting member is an adhesive portion.


10. The mounting system of claim 9, wherein the adhesive portion has a configuration to secure the inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface during a predetermined load condition imposed on the photovoltaic device.


11. The mounting system of claim 9, wherein the adhesive portion comprises a first part applied to the inactive area and a second part applied to the surface, wherein each of the first and second adhesive parts have a configuration such that bonding is activated during contact between the first and second parts of the adhesive portion.


12. The mounting system of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second adhesive parts have a configuration such that bonding is activated when energy is applied to the inactive area generally opposite the first adhesive part after contact between the first and second parts of the adhesive portion.


13. The mounting system of claim 9, wherein the adhesive portion has a configuration such that it is degraded by an application of energy to an area proximate the adhesive portion in order to non-destructively detach the inactive area from the surface.


14. The mounting system of claim 9, wherein the adhesive portion adhesive portion has a configuration such that it is degraded by an application of a solution to the adhesive portion in order to non-destructively detach the inactive area from the surface.


15. The mounting system of claim 9, further comprising a plurality of spaced adhesive portions for securing the inactive area to the surface, each of the adhesive portions being configured so a portion of the inactive area is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


16. The mounting system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of adhesive portions have a configuration to secure the inactive area of the photovoltaic device to the surface during a predetermined load condition imposed on the photovoltaic device.


17. The mounting system of claim 16, wherein the configuration of the adhesive portions includes a first set of adhesive portions having a first configuration and a second set of adhesive portions having a second configuration, the first configuration of adhesive portions secure a first portion of the inactive area to the surface during the predetermined load condition, the second configuration of adhesive portions secure a second portion of the inactive area to the surface during a load condition different from the predetermined load condition.


18. The mounting system of claim 15, further comprising a substrate that the photovoltaic device is secured thereto, wherein the adhesive portions are spaced about the substrate for securing the substrate to the surface, each of the adhesive portions being configured so a portion of the substrate is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


19. The mounting system of claim 18, wherein a configuration of the adhesive portions includes a first set of adhesive portions having a first configuration and a second set of adhesive portions having a second configuration, the first configuration of adhesive portions secure a first portion of the substrate to the surface during a predetermined load condition, the second configuration of adhesive portions secure a second portion of the substrate to the surface during a load condition different from the predetermined load condition.


20. The mounting system of claim 18, wherein a plurality of spaced photovoltaic devices are secured to the substrate.


21. The mounting system of claim 18, further comprising an interface layer disposed between the photovoltaic device and the substrate.


22. The mounting system of claim 18, wherein the substrate further includes a cutout.


23. A mounting system for securing a photovoltaic device against a surface, the mounting system comprising a plurality of spaced ballast members disposed on an inactive area of the photovoltaic device, wherein the ballast members urge the inactive area against the surface.


24. The mounting system of claim 23, wherein the surface is a planar surface.


25. The mounting system of claim 23, wherein the ballast members are perforated.


26. The mounting system of claim 25, wherein the spaced ballast members are coupled together with a connecting member utilizing a portion of the holes.


27. The mounting system of claim 23, further comprising a substrate that the photovoltaic device is secured thereto, the spaced ballast members being disposed on the substrate and the ballast members urge the substrate against the surface.


28. The mounting system of claim 27, wherein the ballast members are fixedly secured to the substrate, and each of the ballast members being configured to be non-destructively detachable from the substrate and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.


29. The mounting system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the ballast members is detachably secured to the substrate with an adhesive.


30. The mounting system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the ballast members is detachably secured to the substrate utilizing a hook and loop fastener.


31. The mounting system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the ballast members includes a ballast fixation member that engages a complementary substrate fixation member.


32. The mounting system of claim 31, wherein the ballast fixation member is one of a snap-fit, hoop and loop, or an engage-and-lock fastener.


33. The mounting system of claim 31, wherein the ballast fixation member is a cover disposed over the ballast member, the cover having a cover fixation member that engages the complementary substrate fixation member.


34. The mounting system of claim 33, wherein the cover is an integral part of the substrate.


35. The mounting system of claim 31, further comprising an interface layer disposed between the photovoltaic device and the substrate.


36. The mounting system of claim 31, wherein a configuration of the ballast members includes a first set of ballast members having a first configuration and a second set of ballast members having a second configuration, the first configuration of ballast members secure a first portion of the substrate to the surface during a predetermined load condition, the second configuration of ballast members secure a second portion of the substrate to the surface during a load condition different from the predetermined load condition.


37. A method of securing a photovoltaic device to a surface, the method comprising:
positioning a mounting member along an unexposed side of a substrate having the photovoltaic device secured to an exposed side of the substrate; and
securing the mounting member to the surface, the mounting member being configured so the substrate is non-destructively detachable from the surface and the photovoltaic device is not made incapable of operation due the detachment process.



38. The method of claim 37, wherein at least one of the mounting members comprises an adhesive portion or a snap-fit fastener.


39. The method of claim 38, wherein the adhesive portion comprises a first part applied to the substrate and a second part applied to the surface, wherein the first and second adhesive parts have a configuration such that bonding is activated during contact between the first and second parts of the adhesive portion.


40. The method of claim 39, wherein the adhesive portion has a configuration such that it is degraded by an application of energy to an area proximate the adhesive portion in order to non-destructively detach the substrate from the surface.


41. The method of claim 37, further comprising the step of disposing an interface layer between the photovoltaic device and the substrate. 

