
One embodiment relates to a photovoltaic (PV) apparatus. The PV apparatus includes a plurality of photovoltaic modules arranged in an array and attached to a support structure which is attached to a roof. Each of the photovoltaic modules comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells. A first array-roof integration member is attached to a first side of the array. The array-roof integration member covers a gap between the first side of the array and the roof. Another embodiment relates to a method of installing a photovoltaic apparatus upon a sloped roof. Another embodiment relates to a kit for mounting a photovoltaic apparatus on a roof. Other embodiments, aspects and features are also disclosed herein.



1. A photovoltaic apparatus comprising:
a support structure attached to a roof;
a plurality of photovoltaic modules arranged in an array and attached to the support structure so as to form a gap between the roof and the array; and
a first array-roof integration member attached to a first side of the array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers the gap so that the array appears integrated with the roof.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member is a flexible member.


3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member has a surface color or color pattern and surface texture which is selected from amongst a set of surface colors or color patterns and surface textures to visually match a color or color pattern and texture of the roof.


4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member has a surface color which is selected from amongst a set of surface colors to be visually complementary to a color of the roof.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the roof is sloped, and wherein the first side of the array is located on a lower portion of the sloped roof, further comprising:
a second array-roof integration member attached to a second side of the array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the second side of the array and the roof; and
a third array-roof integration member attached to a third side of the array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the third side of the array and the roof.



6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member is covered with shingles which are less than half an inch in thickness.


7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the array-roof integration member comprises a plurality of shingles attached to a support piece.


8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member comprises molded plastic having a colored surface.


9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array-roof integration member comprises formed metal having a colored surface.


10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a rigid frame surrounds each photovoltaic module.


11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of air gaps in the first array-roof integration member, wherein the air gaps are configured to provide a predetermined minimum net free vent area.



12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
a clear backsheet in each photovoltaic module; and
areas on each photovoltaic module through which the backsheet of the module is visible.



13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the photovoltaic modules comprise bifacial modules which collect solar energy from both faces of each module.


14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
a module with a colored back sheet chosen to complement or match the roof color.



15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
a mechanism to remove debris.



16. A method of installing a photovoltaic apparatus upon a sloped roof, the method comprising:
attaching a support structure to a roof;
attaching a plurality of photovoltaic modules to the support structure so as to form a photovoltaic array, each of the photovoltaic modules comprising a plurality of photovoltaic cells; and
attaching a first array-roof integration member to a first side of the photovoltaic array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the first side of the photovoltaic array and the roof so that the array appears integrated with the roof.



17. The method of claim 16, wherein the array-roof integration member is a flexible member.


18. The method of claim 16, wherein the array-roof integration member has a surface color or color pattern and surface texture which is selected from amongst a set of surface colors or color patterns and surface textures to visually match a color or color pattern and surface texture of the roof.


19. The method of claim 16, wherein the array-roof integration member has a surface color which is selected from amongst a set of surface colors to be visually complementary to a color of the roof.


20. The method of claim 16, wherein the first side of the array is located on a lower portion of the roof, further comprising:
attaching a second array-roof integration member to a second side of the array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the second side of the array and the roof; and
attaching a third array-roof integration member to a third side of the array, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the third side of the array and the roof.



21. The method of claim 16, wherein the roof is covered with shingles which are less than half an inch in thickness.


22. A photovoltaic apparatus comprising:
a support structure attached to a sloped roof, wherein the roof is covered with shingles which are less than half an inch in thickness;
a plurality of photovoltaic modules arranged in an array and attached to the support structure, each of the photovoltaic modules comprising a plurality of photovoltaic cells; and
an array-roof integration member attached to a side of the array, wherein the side of the array is located on a lower portion of the sloped roof, wherein the array-roof integration member covers a gap between the side of the array and the roof, and wherein the array-roof integration member is selected from a predetermined set of said members so as to have a visible surface which is visually compatible with the shingles.



23. A kit for mounting a photovoltaic apparatus on a roof comprising:
a support structure configured for attachment to a roof;
a plurality of photovoltaic modules configured to be attached to the support structure so as to form a gap between the roof and the array; and
an array-roof integration member configured to be attached to a first side of the array such that the array-roof integration member covers the gap so that the array appears integrated with the roof. 


