
A power generating system is operable while integrated within an exterior shell or façade of a building structure. The system components—energy generating devices (which can be photovoltaic), control units and associated power/signal wiring are incorporated and operated within individual unitized curtain wall units making up the façade.



1. A method of operating a power generating system integrated within a building façade comprising:
electrically coupling a plurality of energy conversion devices within a plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units;
wherein said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units define an exterior shell for at least a portion of a building structure;
further wherein said plurality of energy conversion devices transform a first type of energy form into an electrical energy form;
communicating power and control signals for said plurality of energy conversion devices within a plurality of integrated electrical conduits which are also integrated within said exterior shell;
wherein the power generating system is integrally incorporated and operates within said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units.



2. The method of claim 1 further including a step: coupling a plurality of control units within said interconnected unitized curtain wall units for optimizing a power output of said plurality of energy conversion devices.


3. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of control units optimize a power output of no more than six individual ones of a plurality of energy conversion devices.


4. The method of claim 3 wherein said plurality of control units mitigate the effect of shading on said photovoltaic energy conversion devices.


5. The method of claim 1 wherein said energy conversion devices are photovoltaic devices.


6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of said photovoltaic energy conversion devices are of different physical dimensions and/or electrical characteristics than at least one of the other photovoltaic energy conversion devices.


7. The method of claim 1 further including a step: mounting an electrical connector associated with said energy conversion devices within a pocket region of each said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units.


8. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units include an integral conduit adapted to carry electrical wires between adjacently situated control modules for said plurality of energy conversion devices.


9. The method of claim 8 wherein said integral conduit includes an electrical connector adapted to receive a flexible electrical cable from one of said plurality of energy conversion devices.


10. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units meet Underwriter Laboratories (UL) or other applicable local regulatory requirements associated with the building for building integrated power generation systems and the system does not require a separate inspection prior to operation.


11. The method of claim 1 wherein different unitized curtain wall units of said system are used for flat regions than for corner regions of said building.


12. The method of claim 1, wherein said energy conversion devices cover between 1 and 100% of a surface area of one vertical side of said building structure.


13. The method of claim 1, wherein said curtain wall units include vision and spandrel areas; and
said at least one of said vision areas include at least one energy conversion device; and
and at least one of said spandrel areas includes at least one energy conversion device.



14. The method of claim 5, further including a step: providing a solar flux concentrator for the photovoltaic devices.


15. The method of claim 1, wherein said first form of energy includes at least one of: 1) electromagnetic energy; 2) potential energy; 3) kinetic energy; 4) thermal energy; and/or 5) chemical energy.


16. A method of operating a photovoltaic power generating system integrated within a building façade comprising:
electrically coupling a plurality of photovoltaic conversion devices within a plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units;
wherein said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units define an exterior shell for at least a portion of a building structure;
further wherein at least some of said photovoltaic energy conversion devices are oriented substantially vertically with respect to said building structure at least during certain periods;
communicating power and control signals for said plurality of photovoltaic conversion devices within a plurality of integrated electrical conduits which are also integrated within said exterior shell;
wherein the photovoltaic power generating system is integrally incorporated and operates within said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units.



17. The method of claim 16, wherein said exterior shell encloses a substantial portion of a vertical surface of said building structure which receives solar radiation.


18. The method of claim 16, wherein said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units occupy at least 50% of a vertical surface of said building structure which receives solar radiation.


19. The method of claim 16, wherein said photovoltaic energy conversion devices are arranged in a grid that generates in excess of 20 kw at a peak output.


20. The method of claim 16 wherein the system as constituted meets Underwriter Laboratories (UL) or other or other applicable local regulatory requirements associated with the building for building integrated power generation systems and does not require a separate electrical safety inspection prior to operation.


21. The method of claim 16, further including a step: coupling an electrical output of said system to a utility grid.


22. The method of claim 16, further including a step: powering one or more electrical outlets within said building structure with an electrical output of said system.


23. The method of claim 16, further including a step: powering one or more mechanical systems within the building using an electrical output of said system.


24. The method of claim 16, further including a step: automatically disconnecting high voltages within the system in response to an emergency-based signal.


25. The method of claim 16 further including a step: altering an orientation of said photovoltaic energy conversion devices or a flux path to track and maximize incident solar radiation energy.


26. The method of claim 16, further including a step: providing a solar flux concentrator for the photovoltaic devices.


27. The method of claim 16, further including a step: controlling said photovoltaic conversion devices to isolate degradations of output in one such conversion device from other conversion devices in said array.


28. The method of claim 16, wherein power generated by the photovoltaic power generating system comes from a substantial portion of said exterior shell that spans across more than one face of said building structure.


29. The method of claim 16, wherein power generated by the photovoltaic power generating system comes from both vision areas and spandrel areas.


30. A method of operating a photovoltaic power generating system integrated within a building façade comprising:
electrically coupling a plurality of photovoltaic conversion devices within a plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units to form an interconnected array;
wherein said unitized curtain wall units enclose a majority of a surface area of a building structure exposed to solar radiation and do not function as structural support elements for said building structure;
further wherein at least some of said photovoltaic energy conversion devices are oriented substantially vertically with respect to said building structure at least during certain periods;
communicating power and control signals for said plurality of photovoltaic conversion devices within a plurality of integrated electrical conduits which are also integrated within said exterior shell;
wherein a first set of power and control signals is routed in said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units within vertical mullions along a first vertical axis having a first direction;
and wherein a second set of power and control signals is routed in said plurality of interconnected unitized curtain wall units within a horizontal wireway along a second axis in a second direction that is substantially perpendicular to said first direction;
generating an electrical output from said interconnected array;
wherein substantially all elements of the photovoltaic power generating system are integrally incorporated within said exterior shell.


