
A photovoltaic (PV) control system generates a power output rate control signal based on a monitored rate of change of collective power output generated via a plurality of PV subsystems and a desired collective output power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems and communicates the power output rate control signal to the plurality of PV subsystems to control a rate of change of one or more operating parameters of individual PV subsystems in order to control a rate of change of collective output power of the plurality of solar PV subsystems.



1. A solar photovoltaic (PV) control system comprising:
a PV system power sensing mechanism configured to monitor instantaneous collective output active power generated via a plurality of PV subsystems and generate a sequence of instantaneous collective output active power signals there from over a desired period of time; and
a rate controller, wherein the rate controller is configured to monitor a rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems in response to the sequence of instantaneous collective output active power signals and control the rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems by generating an active power output rate control signal based on the monitored rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems and a desired collective active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems and communicating the active power output rate control signal to the plurality of PV subsystems.



2. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein each PV subsystem comprises:
at least one PV array; and
a PV inverter configured to generate at least one of single-phase or multi-phase AC active power to a utility grid in response to available PV array active power.



3. The solar PV control system according to claim 2, wherein at least one PV subsystem is configured to vary an inverter output current in response to the active power output rate control signal.


4. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein each PV subsystem comprises:
at least one PV array; and
a DC to multiple-phase AC inverter configured to generate multi-phase AC active power to a utility grid in response to available PV array active power.



5. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on a collective PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a first time period and a collective PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a second time period greater than the first time period.


6. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the rate controller is further configured to mandate active PV subsystems to reduce their active power at a first predetermined rate, while at the same time mandating PV subsystems commencing operation to increase their active power at second predetermined rate such that the resulting rate of change for the collective PV subsystem active power remains at or below a desired rate of change.


7. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the desired collective active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems corresponds to a positive ramp rate.


8. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the desired collective active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems corresponds to a negative ramp rate.


9. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on at least one of a utility power grid frequency deviation, harmonics injected into a utility power grid via a corresponding PV subsystem, a utility power grid balancing requirement associated with different PV subsystems in different phases, a utility power grid voltage compensation requirement, or a utility power grid stabilization requirement.


10. The solar PV control system according to claim 1, wherein the PV system active power sensing mechanism is further configured to monitor instantaneous output active power generated via at least one energy storage device to generate the sequence of instantaneous collective output power signals.


11. The solar PV control system according to claim 10, wherein the rate controller is further configured to monitor a rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems and the at least one energy storage device in response to the sequence of instantaneous collective output active power signals and control the rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems and the at least one energy storage device.


12. A solar photovoltaic (PV) system comprising:
a plurality of PV subsystems, each PV subsystem comprising:
at least one PV array; and
at least one PV inverter configured to generate at least one of single-phase or multi-phase AC active power in response to available PV array active power; and

a PV control system configured to generate an active power output rate control signal based on a monitored rate of change of collective active power output generated via the plurality of PV subsystems and a desired collective output active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems and communicating the active power output rate control signal to the plurality of PV subsystems to control a rate of change of one or more operating parameters of individual PV subsystems.



13. The solar PV system according to claim 12, wherein the operating parameters comprise at least PV inverter output current.


14. The solar PV system according to claim 12, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on a collective PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a first time period and a collective PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a second time period greater than the first time period.


15. The solar PV control system according to claim 12, wherein the desired collective output active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems corresponds to a positive ramp rate.


16. The solar PV control system according to claim 12, wherein the desired collective output active power change rate for the plurality of PV subsystems corresponds to a negative ramp rate.


17. The solar PV control system according to claim 12, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on at least one of a utility power grid frequency deviation, harmonics injected into a utility power grid via a corresponding PV subsystem, a utility power grid balancing requirement associated with different PV subsystems in different phases, a utility power grid voltage variation compensation requirement, or a utility power grid stabilization requirement.


18. A solar photovoltaic (PV) system comprising:
at least one energy storage device;
a PV subsystem comprising:
a PV array; and
a PV inverter configured to generate at least one of single-phase or multi-phase AC active power in response to available PV array active power; and

a PV control system configured to generate an active power output rate control signal based on a monitored rate of change of active power output generated via the PV subsystem and a desired output active power change rate for the PV subsystem and communicating the active power output rate control signal to the PV subsystem and the at least one energy storage device to control a rate of change of one or more operating parameters of the PV subsystem.



19. The solar PV system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more operating parameters comprise at least PV inverter output current.


20. The solar PV system according to claim 18, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on a PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a first time period and a PV subsystem output active power ramp rate during a second time period greater than the first time period.


21. The solar PV control system according to claim 18, wherein the desired output active power change rate for the PV subsystem corresponds to a positive ramp rate.


22. The solar PV control system according to claim 18, wherein the desired output active power change rate for the PV subsystem corresponds to a negative ramp rate.


23. The solar PV control system according to claim 18, wherein the active power output rate control signal is further based on at least one of a utility power grid frequency deviation, harmonics injected into a utility power grid via a corresponding PV subsystem, a utility power grid balancing requirement associated with different PV subsystems in different phases, or a utility power grid stabilization requirement. 

