
The energy supply device having a plurality of energy panels in the form of roof tiles, with which a part of a building is covered and which have an energy module serving to absorb solar energy, which energy module is connected to a power supply line. According to the invention at least one metal pipeline is provided on an outer side of the building, which pipeline carries the energy panels that are mechanically and thermally connected to the pipeline, in which a cable channel, serving to receive the power supply line, and at least one fluid channel are provided, through which a fluid heat transport medium can be conveyed, with which thermal energy can be transferred from the energy panel to a thermal energy sink.



1. Energy supply device with a plurality of energy panels provided as roof tiles, which energy panels cover a part of a building and comprise each an energy module that is serving to absorb solar energy and that is connected to a power supply line, wherein at least one metal pipeline is provided on an outer side of the building, which metal pipeline supports the energy panels, which are mechanically and thermally connected to the pipeline, which comprises a cable channel, serving to receive the power supply line, and at least one fluid channel, through which a fluid heat transport medium can be conveyed, with which thermal energy can be transferred from the energy panel to a thermal energy sink.


2. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of pipelines produced from aluminium, which are mounted parallel to each other on the roof truss of the building, form a roof lathing serving to support the roof tiles, and in that the pipeline comprises a first fluid channel, in which the heat transport medium is guided in one direction, and a second fluid channel, in which the heat transport medium is returned.


3. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein each energy panel comprises a connecting cable connected to the energy module having a connector, which can be connected to a flat cable guided in the cable channel, which flat cable includes the power supply line and/or control lines, wherein the individual energy modules are preferably connected to each other in parallel by the power supply line.


4. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein the pipeline comprises a profile with two pipe parts connected to each other via a base structure, in which pipe parts the first and second fluid channels are respectively guided, whereby on the first pipe part a first profile part forming the cable channel is arranged and on the second pipe part a carrier plate is arranged, against the upper side of which the energy panels lie planar.


5. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein a coupling device is provided, which is connected on the one hand to a metal body of the energy panel and on the other hand to the pipeline, whereby a thermal and/or mechanical connection is produced.


6. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the energy panels is provided with a local control unit, which is connected via control lines to a central control unit and which is adapted to control the current output by the energy module to at least one local current collector provided in the energy panel, a power storage unit or light emitting diodes, or to at least one central current collector.


7. Energy supply device according to claim 1, wherein the pipelines are provided on the lower side thereof with a coupling groove, in which a mounting profile is fixedly or displaceably held, by which the pipelines are connected to each other and/or to the roof truss.


8. Energy panel in the form of a roof tile, in particular for an energy supply device according to claim 1, with an energy module serving to absorb solar energy, which energy module can be connected via a connecting line to a power supply line, wherein a tile structure made of clay or metal in the form of a roof tile is provided, on the upper side of which a receiving area for the energy module is provided, which energy module comprises a metal body in the form of a metal plate, which is releasably connected to the tile structure and on which solar cells are arranged.


9. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the tile structure comprises at least one holding element, which holds the energy module in a shape-locking way and/or in that the tile structure comprises a cable channel, in which the connecting line is laid.


10. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the tile structure comprises on the bottom side a flat zone, which corresponds to a plate-form carrier element of the pipeline.


11. Energy panel according to claim 9, wherein the metal body comprises at the upper end a frame with an opening, into which one of the holding elements engages, and/or in that the metal body comprises at the lower end a preferably bendable tongue element, which engages around the lower end of the tile structure.


12. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the energy module comprises at least one local current collector, such as a local energy storage unit and/or at least one light emitting diode, which serves as a consumer load and/or signal emitter.


13. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the energy module comprises at least one local control unit, which can be connected via control lines to a central control unit and is adapted to control the current output by the energy module on the one hand towards the local current collector or towards at least one central current collector.


14. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the energy module is structured as a laminate, with the metal body as a substrate layer, on which a functional layer covered by a transparent protective layer is arranged, on which functional layer the local control unit and also solar cells and possibly the light emitting diodes, which are not covered by further energy modules, are arranged.


15. Energy panel according to claim 8, wherein the local control unit is designed or connectable in such a way that the energy module, after disconnection of the energy panel from the power line, is connected to the light emitting diodes, which consume the energy generated and simultaneously indicate the status of the energy panel.


16. Roof tile, in particular made of clay, for an energy panel according to claim 8.

