
A fused wiring harness having a fused wiring assembly and a second wiring assembly. The fused wiring assembly includes a first primary conductor, a first secondary fused conductor, and a second secondary fused conductor. The first secondary fused conductor is conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a first junction. The second secondary fused conductor is conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a second junction. The second wiring assembly includes a second primary conductor, a first secondary conductor, and a second secondary conductor. The first secondary conductor is conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a third junction. The fused wiring harness further includes a first overmold portion at least partially enveloping the first junction and the third junction, thereby securing the fused wiring assembly to the second wiring assembly.



1. A fused wiring harness for a photovoltaic system, the fused wiring harness comprising:
a fused wiring assembly comprising:
a first primary conductor;
a first secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a first junction, the first secondary fused conductor comprising a first connector, the first connector being configured to conductively connect to a first circuit comprising a photovoltaic module; and,
a second secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a second junction, the second secondary fused conductor comprising a second connector, the second connector being configured to conductively connect to a second circuit comprising a photovoltaic module; and,

a second wiring assembly comprising:
a second primary conductor;
a first secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a third junction, the first secondary conductor comprising a third connector, the third connector being configured to conductively connect to the first circuit comprising a photovoltaic module; and,
a second secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a fourth junction, the second secondary conductor comprising a fourth connector, the fourth connector being configured to conductively connect to the second circuit comprising a photovoltaic module; and,

the fused wiring harness further comprising a first overmold portion at least partially enveloping the first junction and the third junction, thereby securing the fused wiring assembly to the second wiring assembly.



2. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, wherein the first secondary fused conductor comprises a fuse that is enclosed within a fuse holder.


3. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, wherein the first overmold portion at least partially envelops a fuse.


4. The fused wiring harness of claim 2, wherein the first overmold portion at least partially envelops the fuse holder and the fuse.


5. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, further comprising a discrete second overmold portion that at least partially envelops a fuse.


6. The fused wiring harness of claim 2, further comprising a discrete second overmold portion that at least partially envelops the fuse holder and the fuse.


7. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, further comprising a second overmold portion that at least partially envelops the second junction and the fourth junction.


8. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, wherein the first primary conductor comprises a fifth connector, the fifth connector being configured to conductively connect to a device selected from the group consisting of a second fused wiring harness, a combiner, a disconnect, an inverter, and a transformer.


9. The fused wiring harness of claim 8, wherein the first primary conductor further comprises a fuse disposed between a first end and the first junction, and wherein a sixth connector is attached to the first end, the sixth connector being configured to conductively connect to a third fused wiring harness.


10. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, wherein the first secondary conductor is unfused.


11. The fused wiring harness of claim 1, wherein the second wiring assembly is unfused.


12. A photovoltaic system comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic modules comprising at least a first photovoltaic module and a second photovoltaic module;
a fused wiring harness comprising:
a fused wiring assembly comprising:
a first primary conductor;
a first secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a first junction, the first secondary fused conductor comprising a first connector, the first connector being conductively connected to the first photovoltaic module; and,
a second secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a second junction, the second secondary fused conductor comprising a second connector, the second connector being conductively connected to the second photovoltaic module; and,

a second wiring assembly comprising:
a second primary conductor;
a first secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a third junction, the first secondary conductor comprising a third connector, the third connector being conductively connected to the first photovoltaic module; and,
a second secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a fourth junction, the second secondary conductor comprising a fourth connector, the fourth connector being conductively connected to the second photovoltaic module; and,

the fused wiring harness further comprising a first overmold portion at least partially enveloping the first junction and the third junction, thereby securing the fused wiring assembly to the second wiring assembly.




13. The photovoltaic system of claim 12, wherein the first primary conductor further comprises a fifth connector, the fifth connector being configured to conductively connect to a device selected from the group consisting of a second fused wiring harness, a combiner, a disconnect, an inverter, and a transformer.


14. The fused wiring harness of claim 13, wherein the first primary conductor further comprises a fuse disposed between a first end and the first junction, and wherein a sixth connector is attached to the first end, the sixth connector being configured to conductively connect to a third fused wiring harness.


15. The fused wiring harness of claim 12, wherein the second wiring assembly is unfused.


16. A method for installing a photovoltaic system, the method comprising:
providing a first circuit, the first circuit comprising a first photovoltaic module;
providing a second circuit, the second circuit comprising a second photovoltaic module;
providing a fused wiring harness comprising:
a fused wiring assembly comprising:
a first primary conductor;
a first secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a first junction, the first secondary fused conductor comprising a first connector, the first connector being configured to conductively connect to the first circuit; and,
a second secondary fused conductor being conductively connected to the first primary conductor at a second junction, the second secondary fused conductor comprising a second connector, the second connector being configured to conductively connect to the second circuit; and,

a second wiring assembly comprising:
a second primary conductor;
a first secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a third junction, the first secondary conductor comprising a third connector, the third connector being configured to conductively connect to the first circuit; and,
a second secondary conductor being conductively connected to the second primary conductor at a fourth junction, the second secondary conductor comprising a fourth connector, the fourth connector being configured to conductively connect to the second circuit; and,

the fused wiring harness further comprising a first overmold portion at least partially enveloping the first junction and the third junction, thereby securing the fused wiring assembly to the second wiring assembly;

connecting the first connector to the first circuit;
connecting the second connector to the second circuit;
connecting the third connector to the first circuit; and, connecting the fourth connector to the second circuit.



17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first primary conductor comprises a fifth connector, the fifth connector being configured to conductively connect to a device selected from the group consisting of a second fused wiring harness, a combiner, a disconnect, an inverter, and a transformer.


18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
providing the device selected from the group consisting of a second fused wiring harness, a combiner, a disconnect, an inverter, and a transformer; and,
connecting the fifth connector to the device.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first primary conductor further comprises a fuse disposed between a first end and the first junction, and wherein a sixth connector is attached to the first end, the sixth connector being configured to conductively connect to a third fused wiring harness.


20. The method of claim 19, further comprising:
providing the third fused wiring harness; and,
connecting the sixth connector to the third fused wiring harness. 


