
A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform for solar panels is mounted with three or four legs attachable to a concrete pad and includes a substantially vertically disposed axle and a substantially horizontally disposed axle to which a plurality of panel support members are mounted to form a panel support assembly. The vertically disposed axle allows at least 240 degree rotation of the panel support assembly to follow the daily East-West travel of the Sun in the sky. The substantially horizontally disposed axle allows declining or tilting of the panel support assembly for the North-South adjustment of the panel support assembly to correspond to the geographic latitude of the location where the solar tracking mechanism and platform is used. The substantially horizontally disposed axle is placed on the centroid or substantially on the centroid location relative to the panel support members, including solar panels so that, as a result, the assembly is completely or substantially balanced and can be placed horizontally or in any inclined position without the weight of the assembly, including solar panels mounted thereon, causing it to precipitously drop or fall.



1. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform adapted for supporting a plurality of solar panels that comprise solar energy collecting means and for adjusting said solar panels in an East-West direction and for also adjusting the declination of said panels relative to the horizontal, said adjustment being considered adjustment for North-South location and in accordance to seasons, the solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform comprising:
a plurality of legs;
a solar panel mounting subassembly that forms a frame adapted for receiving the plurality of solar panels, the subassembly being mounted to the legs;
first means mounted to the legs for rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment;
second means mounted to the first means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons; the second means holding the solar panel mounting subassembly in a substantially weight balanced position at any angle of declination that is practically used for North-South and seasonal adjustment.



2. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 1 wherein the substantially horizontally disposed axis is located substantially in the weight centroid of the solar panel mounting subassembly.


3. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 2 additionally comprising an electric motor to power the first means for rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment and an electrically powered actuator to power the second means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons.


4. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 2 additionally comprising a first electric motor to power the first means for rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment and a second electric motor to power the second means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons.


5. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 4 additionally comprising switch means for limiting the rotation of the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment of at least 240 degrees.


6. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 5 additionally comprising second switch means for limiting the pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons within a predetermined set range of degrees.


7. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 2 additionally comprising a plurality of solar panels mounted to the solar panel mounting subassembly and wherein the second means is adapted for holding the solar panel mounting subassembly together with the plurality of solar panels in the substantially weight balanced position.


8. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 2 wherein the first and second means are powered manually.


9. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 2 that has no more than 3 legs.


10. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform adapted for supporting a plurality of solar panels that comprise solar energy collecting means and for adjusting said solar panels in an East-West direction and for also adjusting the declination of said panels relative to the horizontal, said adjustment being considered adjustment for North-South location and in accordance to seasons, the solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform comprising:
a plurality of legs;
a solar panel mounting subassembly that forms a frame adapted for receiving the plurality of solar panels, the subassembly being mounted to the legs;
first means mounted to the legs for rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment, said first means including a substantially vertically disposed axle fixedly connected to the solar panel mounting subassembly, the substantially vertically disposed axle including a smoothly machined stainless steel outer surface, the first means further including an oil impregnated nylon bushing in working engagement with the stainless steel outer surface;
second means mounted to the first means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons; the second means holding the solar panel mounting subassembly in a substantially weight balanced position at any angle of declination that is practically used for North-South and seasonal adjustment, the substantially horizontally disposed axis being located substantially in the weight centroid of the solar panel mounting subassembly.



11. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 10 additionally comprising an electric motor having an out-put gear, the substantially vertically disposed axle being fixedly connected to a gear that is in meshing engagement with the out-put gear of the electric motor, the electric motor rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment.


12. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 11 additionally comprising switch means for limiting the rotation of the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment of at least 240 degrees.


13. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 11 additionally comprising a second electric motor to power the second means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons.


14. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 13 additionally comprising second switch means for limiting the pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons within a predetermined set range of degrees.


15. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 11 additionally comprising a plurality of solar panels mounted to the solar panel mounting subassembly and wherein the second means is adapted for holding the solar panel mounting subassembly together with the plurality of solar panels in the substantially weight balanced position.


16. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 11 that has no more than 3 legs.


17. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform including a plurality of solar panels that comprise solar energy collecting means and for adjusting said solar panels in an East-West direction and for also adjusting the declination of said panels relative to the horizontal, said adjustment being considered adjustment for North-South location and in accordance to seasons, the solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform comprising:
a plurality of legs;
a solar panel mounting subassembly that forms a frame adapted for supporting the plurality of solar panels, the subassembly being mounted to the legs;
first means mounted to the legs for rotating the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment, said first means including a substantially vertically disposed axle fixedly connected to the solar panel mounting subassembly, the substantially vertically disposed axle including a smoothly machined stainless steel outer surface, the first means further including an oil impregnated nylon bushing in working engagement with the stainless steel outer surface; the first means still further including a first electric motor having an out-put gear, the substantially vertically disclosed axle being fixedly connected to a gear that is in meshing engagement with the out-put gear of the first electric motor, the first means yet additionally including switch means for limiting the rotation of the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially vertically disposed axis for East to West adjustment of at least 240 degrees;
second means mounted to the first means for pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly and the supported solar panels around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons; the second means holding the solar panel mounting subassembly and solar panels in a substantially weight balanced position at any angle of declination that is practically used for North-South and seasonal adjustment, the second means comprising a second electric motor, the substantially horizontally disposed axis being located substantially in the weight centroid of the solar panel mounting subassembly and solar panels, and the second means additionally including switch means for limiting the pivoting the solar panel mounting subassembly around a substantially horizontally disposed axis for adjustment of North-South location and for seasons within a predetermined set range of degrees.



18. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 17 that has no more than 3 legs.


19. A solar tracking mechanism and mounting platform in accordance with claim 17 additionally including a rechargeable battery, said battery capable of powering the first and second electric motors. 

