
Solar concentrator truss assemblies and arrays of solar concentrator truss assemblies are disclosed. The solar concentrator truss assembly has a V-shaped frame joined with a solar panel to form a triangulated truss. The solar concentrator truss assembly is lightweight and strong, and does not require extensive additional structural support for installation. The array of solar concentrator truss assemblies is motion controlled by a computer to move the array into preferable positions with regards to sunlight.



1. A solar concentrator truss assembly, comprising:
a generally V-shaped frame including an inner surface, the inner surface including a first and second concentrating portion, the inner surface including an unexposed portion located between the first and second concentrating portion; and
a solar panel including a sun-facing surface and a bottom surface, the solar panel received by the inner surface;
wherein the solar panel bridges the inner surface to form a truss with the generally V-shaped frame, such that the sun-facing surface and the first and second reflective portions are exposed to each other, and the bottom surface is exposed to the unexposed portion.



2. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second concentrating portions are separated from one another by an angle ranging from 60 to 90 degrees.


3. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second concentrating portions include reflective adhesive films disposed thereon.


4. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the generally V-shaped frame is constructed from a single piece of sheet metal.


5. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the inner surface includes shoulders complementary shaped to receive the solar panel.


6. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the solar panel is a stress bearing member.


7. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the generally V-shaped frame additionally includes at least one ventilation passage positioned below the bottom surface of the solar panel.


8. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the solar panel additionally includes an elongated axle extending past the generally V-shaped frame.


9. The solar concentrator truss assembly of claim 1, wherein the generally V-shaped frame includes an opening for a dowel socket in the unexposed portion.


10. A solar concentrator array, comprising:
a frame, including at least one elongated beam;
a plurality solar concentrator truss assemblies, each solar concentrator assembly including:
a generally V-shaped frame including an inner surface, the inner surface including a first and second concentrating portion, the inner surface including an unexposed portion located between the first and second concentrating portion, the generally V-shaped frame including a socket; and
a solar panel including a sun-facing surface and a bottom surface, the solar panel bridging the inner surface to form a truss with the generally V-shaped frame, such that the sun-facing surface and the first and second reflective portions are exposed to each other, the solar panel including an elongated axle extending past the generally V-shaped frame and rotatably coupled to the at least one elongated beam; and

a motion apparatus including a plurality of dowels, each respective dowel moveably coupled to a respective socket of a respective generally V-shaped frame for moving each respective solar concentrator truss assembly around a respective axle.



11. The solar collector array of claim 10, wherein the frame additionally includes a second elongated beam parallel to the at least one elongated beam, wherein the axle of each respective solar concentrator assembly is additionally rotatably coupled to the second elongated beam.


12. The solar collector array of claim 10, wherein each generally V-shaped frame is constructed from a single piece of sheet metal.


13. The solar collector array of claim 10, wherein the first and second concentrating portions are separated from each other by an angle ranging from 60 to 90 degrees.


14. The solar collector array of claim 10, wherein the motion apparatus additionally includes an elongated connecting rod coupled to a linkage, and a motor moveably coupled to the linkage.


15. The solar collector array of claim 10, wherein the motion apparatus additionally includes a motor moveably coupled to the plurality of dowels, and a computer assembly operationally coupled to the motor, the computer assembly configured to store and execute instructions for controlling movement of the motor.


16. The solar collector array of claim 15, wherein the motion apparatus additionally includes a directional light meter operationally coupled to the computer assembly, the directional light meter supplying a signal to the computer assembly, the signal used to execute instructions for controlling movement of the motor.


17. The solar collector array of claim 15, wherein the computer assembly includes stored data, the stored data used to execute instructions for controlling movement of the motor.


18. The solar collector array of claim 17, wherein the stored data includes a location of the solar collector array, time, and date.


19. The solar collector array of claim 10, additionally comprising at least one inverter operationally coupled to the plurality solar concentrator assemblies.


20. A solar concentrator truss assembly, comprising:
a generally V-shaped frame formed from a single piece of sheet metal, and including a first planar member and a second planar member separated by a 60 degree angle,
the first planar member including:
a first inner surface, the first inner surface including a first unexposed portion and a first concentrating portion, and
a first indented shoulder between the first unexposed portion and a first concentrating portion,

the second planar member including:
a second inner surface, the second inner surface including a second unexposed portion and a second concentrating portion, and
a second indented shoulder between the second unexposed portion and a second concentrating portion,

the first and second inner surfaces being exposed to each other; and
a photovoltaic panel including a sun-facing surface, a bottom surface, a first photovoltaic end, a second photovoltaic end, and an elongated axle extending past the generally V-shaped frame,
the first photovoltaic end connected with the first indented shoulder,
the second photovoltaic end connected with the second indented shoulder,
the sun-facing surface being exposed to the first and second reflective portions, the bottom surface being exposed to the first and second unexposed portions,

wherein the first and second concentrating portions each include reflective adhesive film, and wherein the photovoltaic panel is a stress bearing member. 


