
The invention provides a collapsible stand assembly for an accessory, the stand assembly including a base, a mounting head, and at least one support member, the at least one support member being adapted in a collapsed configuration to be stored with the base and the mounting head, the stand being adapted for assembly in an operative configuration wherein the at least one support member releasably connects the accessory to the mounting head and wherein the mounting head is connected to the base.
In one preferred embodiment, the accessory is a rollable solar panel and the at least one support member preferably comprises a plurality of support rods. Preferably also, the solar panel is generally rectangular in shape and is adapted to be rolled, when not in use, into a hollow cylinder defining an internal generally cylindrical void region.



1. A collapsible stand assembly for an accessory, the stand assembly including a base, a mounting head, and at least one support member,
the at least one support member being adapted in a collapsed configuration to be stored with the base and the mounting head,
the stand being adapted for assembly in an operative configuration wherein the at least one support member releasably connects the accessory to the mounting head and wherein the mounting head is connected to the base.



2. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one support member comprises a plurality of support rods, adapted to be stored between the base and the mounting head in the collapsed configuration.


3. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 2, wherein the accessory is a rollable solar panel adapted to be rolled, when not in use, into a hollow cylinder defining an internal generally cylindrical void region adapted to contain the support rods in the collapsed configuration.


4. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 3, wherein the support rods in the operative configuration connect the solar panel to the mounting head and support the panel in an unrolled substantially flat configuration.


5. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 4, wherein the rollable solar panel is substantially rectangular in shape when in the unrolled substantially flat configuration.


6. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the mounting head is adapted for connection to the base in the operative configuration by a base connection mechanism, which permits selective adjustment of the orientation of the mounting head with respect to the base.


7. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 6, wherein the base connection mechanism includes a spherical joint.


8. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 3, further including a retaining mechanism adapted to retain the solar panel in the rolled configuration.


9. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 8, wherein the retaining mechanism includes a selectively releasable hook and loop fastener.


10. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the accessory is a rollable solar panel adapted to be rolled, when not in use, into a generally hollow cylinder, and wherein the base and the mounting head define respective generally circular peripheral edge flanges adapted for alignment or engagement with corresponding ends of the cylinder defined by the solar panel in the rolled configuration.


11. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 10, wherein the base and the mounting head close off corresponding ends of an internal generally cylindrical void region defined by the solar panel in the rolled configuration.


12. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 11, wherein, in the collapsed configuration, the respective peripheral edge flanges of the base and the mounting head form a spool, around which the solar panel is adapted to be rolled and secured.


13. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 11, wherein the support rods are adapted to be captively retained within the void region, between the base and the mounting head, with the assembly in the collapsed configuration.


14. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 3, further including a generally tubular container, adapted to retain the rolled solar panel between the mounting head and the base, and thereby to retain the support rods within the void region, in the collapsed configuration.


15. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 14, wherein the container includes a generally tubular bag, formed from a relatively soft textile material.


16. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 15, wherein the tubular bag includes an open top, incorporating a peripheral fastening cord.


17. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 16, wherein the mounting head incorporates a circumferential locating groove adapted for secure engagement by the fastening cord of the bag, whereby the bag is adapted to hold the stand assembly and the solar panel together in the collapsed configuration, with only an upper portion of the mounting head above the groove protruding from the bag.


18. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 15, wherein the bag is waterproof and includes at least one pocket adapted to contain a portable electronic communication and navigation device.


19. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 14, wherein the container comprises a substantially rigid tube.


20. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the mounting head is adapted for direct connection to the base in the collapsed configuration.


21. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 20, wherein the mounting head is adapted for direct connection to the base in the collapsed configuration, by means of the support members.


22. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support members are formed as elongate support rods from a relatively lightweight, resilient, flexible material.


23. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 22, wherein each of said support rods is adapted for insertion into a corresponding rod socket formed in the mounting head such that in the assembled configuration, the rod sockets locate and orient the rods at predetermined angles with respect to the mounting head.


24. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 22, wherein a remote end of each of said support rods terminates in a respective hook formation.


25. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 24, wherein the hook formations are adapted for engagement with complementary eyelets disposed at or adjacent respective corners of a rollable solar panel.


26. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 25, wherein the support rods are sized and oriented such that in the operative configuration, engagement of the hooks with the corresponding eyelets requires a predetermined degree of resilient bending of the support rods, thereby to induce biaxial tension in the solar panel, so as positively to retain the panel in a substantially flat orientation for optimal operational efficiency.


27. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the mounting head incorporates an end cap including a top housing, the top housing containing a plurality of tension reels, each independently supporting a corresponding retractable tether cord, each tether cord extending through an internal bore of a corresponding one of said support members, and each tether cord terminating in a tether loop formation adapted to be secured to the ground by a fastening element such as a tent peg.


28. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 27, wherein the tether loop formations are oversized with respect to the internal bores, thereby to prevent the tether loops from being fully retracted through the bores and to prevent the support members from becoming inadvertently separated from the mounting head.


29. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the support members is selectively extensible.


30. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 29, wherein the assembly includes four support members in the form of support rods, adapted respectively to support four corners of a generally rectangular solar panel, each of the four support rods being extensible by at least a factor of two.


31. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 7, wherein the spherical joint forming part of the base connection mechanism comprises a ball formation on the base and a complementary socket formation on the mounting head, or vice versa, the socket being formed from or lined with a resilient material adapted to enable the base to be releasably connected to the mounting head by means of an over-centring press fit.


32. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, wherein the base includes one or more stability fittings.


33. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 32, wherein the one or more stability fittings are selected from the group comprising:
spaced-apart holes by which the base can be anchored to ground by tent pegs;
a threaded socket or other standardised fitting by which the base can be mounted to a tripod; and
a channel formation by which the base can be releasably mounted to an external support strut of a tent or similar structure.



34. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 1, further including an electrical cord having one end adapted for electrical connection to a solar panel and another end adapted for electrical connection, via an adapter, to a device to be powered by the solar panel.


35. A collapsible stand assembly according to claim 34, wherein the adapter includes a female socket of the automotive cigarette lighter type, being thereby compatible with battery chargers for a wide range of electronic devices.

