
The specification and drawing figures describe and show a low profile mounting system that includes a at least one rail. A plurality of tracks is formed in the rail with opposing jaws. The opposing jaws define a slot. The opposing jaws are disposed in the rail asymmetrically to the longitudinal axis of the rail. At least one ledge monolithically extends from the rail for holding an object such as a solar panel. A coupler is provided for demountably connecting a solar panel to the rail. A cleat also is provided for attaching the system to a surface. A connector connects the rail to the cleat. This abstract is provided to comply with rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher or other reader to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure, but this abstract is not to be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of any claim.



1. A mounting system, comprising:
at least one rail;
a plurality of tracks fanned in the rail with opposing jaws defining a slot
wherein the opposing jaws are disposed in the at least one rail asymmetrically to the longitudinal axis of the at least one rail;

at least one ledge monolithically extending from the rail; and
means for connecting the rail to a surface.



2. A mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one ledge is shaped for holding a solar panel.


3. A mounting system as recited in claim 2, wherein the at least one ledge extends from the rail at substantially a right angle.


4. A mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein the connecting means includes at least one coupler.


5. A mounting system as recited in claim 4, wherein the coupler includes an attachment device.


6. A mounting system as recited in claim 5, wherein the attachment device is selected from the group of attachment devices consisting of bolts, nuts, threaded rods, rivets, and screws.


7. A mounting system as recited in claim 6, wherein the coupler includes a clamp.


8. A mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein the connecting means includes a cleat having at least one hole.


9. A low profile mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein the connecting means includes a connector.


10. A mounting system as recited in claim 9, wherein the connector is a bolt securable with a nut and slidably insertable into the at least one hole in the cleat, in the plurality of tracks, and in the opposing jaws disposed in the at least one rail.


11. A low profile panel mounting system, comprising:
a rail formed with a plurality of ledges;
one or more tracks formed in the rail,
wherein the one or more tracks includes a slot with opposing jaws;

a coupler for demountably connecting one or more frames of the panel to the rail;
a plurality of cleats engageable with the rail and to a surface; and
at least one connector slidably insertable into the one or more tracks and plurality of cleats.



12. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 11, wherein the plurality ledges monolithically extend at substantially a right angle from the rail.


13. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 11, wherein the plurality of ledges extends in opposing directions from the longitudinal axis of the rail.


14. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 11, wherein the coupler includes an attachment device selected from the group of attachment devices consisting of bolts, nuts, threaded rods, rivets, and screws.


15. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 11, wherein the coupler include one or more clamps.


16. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 15, wherein the one or more clamps is formed with an orifice.


17. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 16, wherein the clamp is a substantially flat plate.


18. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 16, wherein the clamp is a gutter.


19. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 16, wherein the clamp is a U-shaped structure.


20. A low profile panel mounting system as recited in claim 11, wherein the cleat is an L-shaped member formed with at least one bore.

