
The system provides for one or more photovoltaic panels (3) or other energy sources, connected to a series of inverters (5) in parallel, the outputs of which are connected to a load (Z) and/or to an electricity distribution grid (7). One of the inverters operates as master unit and generates a power control signal in order to track the maximum power point that can be obtained from the panels (3). The other inverters operate as slave units. The control is performed so that all the inverters absorb a variable quantity of power according to the fluctuations in the power available at the output of the photovoltaic panels (3) or other source subject to fluctuations.



1. A method for managing a system for generation of electric power, comprising at least one direct current source, which delivers an electric power subject to fluctuations, and a plurality of inverters provided with respective control units, the inputs of which are connected to said source and which transform the electric power at the input into ac electric power at the output with controlled frequency and voltage, comprising the steps of:
a. selecting one of said inverters as master unit and the remaining inverters as slave units;
b. performing, via said master unit, a maximum power point tracking algorithm and generating a control signal via said master unit;

characterized in that said control signal is used to control the master unit and the slave units, so that said units deliver a variable power that tracks the fluctuations of the power at the output of said direct current source.


2. Method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said master unit and said slave units are controlled to deliver all substantially the same output power, said output power varying according to the power delivered by said direct current source.


3. Method as claimed in claim 1 or 2; characterized in that said power control signal is such that the voltage at the input of said master unit and said slave units fluctuates around a value that maximizes the power delivered by said direct current, source, simultaneously varying the power delivered by said master unit and said slave units via said control signal.


4. Method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3, characterized in that said direct current source comprises at least one photovoltaic panel.


5. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that said master unit performs said maximum power point tracking algorithm cyclically perturbing the voltage at the direct current power source output and observing the variation in power delivered by said direct current source resulting from said perturbation, and generates a control signal for the power at the output of said master unit and said slave units such as to maintain the output voltage of said direct current source around the point of maximum power delivered by said source when an external parameter varies.


6. Method as claimed in claims 4 and 5, characterized in that said external parameter is represented by the power per surface unit collected by said at least one photovoltaic panel.


7. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that the power delivered by said inverters is controlled by controlling the phase displacement between voltage and current at the output of the inverters.


8. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that one of said inverters is selected as master unit at start-up of said system.


9. Method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that one of said inverters is selected as master unit at each start-up of said system.


10. Method as claimed in claim 8 or 9, characterized in that at start-up of said system, each inverter generates a random number and the master unit is identified on the basis of the random numbers generated by said inverters.


11. Method as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the inverter that generates the highest random number becomes the master unit.


12. Method as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the inverter that generates the lowest random number becomes the master unit.


13. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that the power delivered by at least one of said inverters is varied so as to maintain said power around a maximum efficiency point of the inverter.


14. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized by providing two inverters and modulating the control signal for the power delivered by said inverters so as to maximize the efficiency of said inverters.


15. Method as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that all the inverters are maintained connected to said source, varying the power delivered by said inverters by means of said power control signal generated by the master unit.


16. Method as claimed in one or more of the claims from 1 to 15, characterized in that the number of inverters connected in parallel at the output of said direct current source is varied over time in order to minimize the number of inverters active and optimize the efficiency of each inverter, according to the theoretical maximum power that can be delivered by said source as a function of time.


17. An electric power DC/AC conversion system, comprising: a plurality of inverters that can be connected in parallel and are provided with respective control units, wherein:
each of said inverters is suitable for receiving at the input a dc electric power subject to fluctuations and for delivering an ac power with controlled frequency and voltage;
one of said inverters is selected as master unit, and the others as slave units;
said master unit performs a maximum power point tracking algorithm on the direct current fluctuating at the input of said inverters and generates a control signal for said inverters;

characterized in that said control units are further programmed so as to control each slave unit and the master unit according to said control signal coming from the master unit, to provide at the output of, said units an ac power, variable according to the fluctuating input power.


18. System as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that the control units of said master unit and said slave units are programmed to ensure that said master unit and said slave units all substantially deliver the same output power, said output power varying according to the input power.


19. System as claimed in claim 17 or 18, characterized by a do power source, the output of which is connected to the inputs of said inverter.


20. System as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that said dc power source comprises at least one photovoltaic panel.


21. System as claimed in one or more of the claims characterized in that said power control signal is such that the voltage at the input of said master unit and said slave units fluctuates around a value that maximizes the power delivered by said direct current source, simultaneously varying the power delivered by said master unit and said slave units by means of said control signal.


22. System as claimed in one or more of the claims from 19 to 21, characterized in that the control, units are programmed so that said master unit performs said maximum power point tracking algorithm, cyclically perturbing the voltage at the output of the dc power source and observing the variation in power delivered by said direct current source resulting from said perturbation, and generates a power control signal at the output of said master unit and said slave units such as to maintain the output voltage of said direct current source around the point of maximum power delivered by the source when an external parameter varies.


23. System as claimed in claims 20 and 22, characterized in that said external parameter is represented by the power per surface unit collected by said at least one photovoltaic panel.


24. System as claimed in one or more of the claims from 17 to 23, characterized in that said control units are programmed to control the power delivered by said inverters acting on the phase displacement between voltage and current at the output of the inverters.


25. System as claimed in one or more of the claims from 19 to 24, characterized in that said inverters are permanently connected to said direct current power source without the interposition of switching devices.


26. System as claimed in one or more of the claims from 17 to 25, characterized in that said control units are programmed to perform a function of selection of one of said inverters as master unit and the others as slave units. 

