
A power generation system for feeding electrical power from a generation unit into a three-phase grid via three AC terminals is disclosed. The system includes a relay arrangement for disconnecting the system from the grid having at least three relays. Each of the three relays includes a control coil and two switching contacts operated by the corresponding control coil. Each of the AC terminals is connectable to the grid via a first and a second switching contact, each of which is assigned to a different one of the relays. Further disclosed are a relay arrangement and an inverter with a relay arrangement.



1. A power generation system for feeding electrical power from a generation unit into a three-phase grid via three AC terminals, the system comprising:
a relay arrangement for disconnecting the system from the grid, wherein:
the relay arrangement comprises at least three relays,
each of the three relays comprises a control coil and two switching contacts operated by the corresponding control coil, and
each of the AC terminals is connectable to the grid via a first and a second switching contact, each of which is assigned to a different one of the relays.



2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an inverter configured to receive the electrical power from the generation unit and convert a DC power into an AC power.


3. The system of claim 2, wherein the inverter is a photovoltaic inverter.


4. The system of claim 3, wherein the generation unit comprises photovoltaic generators.


5. The system of claim 2, wherein the inverter is a transformerless inverter.


6. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the relays is separately operable by a corresponding relay driver.


7. The system of claim 6, wherein each relay driver is configured to operate the corresponding relay only upon presence of a setting signal of a control unit and an interrupt signal of a watchdog arrangement.


8. The system of claim 7, wherein the control unit is permanently monitored by the watchdog arrangement.


9. The system of claim 7, wherein each relay driver is configured to be monitored by a test signal of the control unit.


10. The system of claim 9, wherein control signals for the control coils are interrupted upon presence of the test signal, a duration of the interruption is selected to be short enough to prevent an opening of switches for disconnecting the system from the grid, and a response of the control coils to the test signal is evaluated by the control unit.


11. The system of claim 1, wherein the relay arrangement comprises self-actuating switches for preventing unintended connection of the system to the grid.


12. The system of claim 1, wherein the relay arrangement is integrated into a housing of the system.


13. The system of claim 1, wherein the relays are arranged on a circuit board.


14. An inverter for converting a DC power into an AC power provided to a three-phase grid via three AC terminals, the inverter comprising:
a relay arrangement for disconnecting the inverter from the grid, wherein:
the relay arrangement comprises at least three relays,
each of the three relays comprises a control coil and two switching contacts operated by the corresponding control coil, and
each of the AC terminals is connectable to the grid via a first and a second switching contact, each of which is assigned to a different one of the relays.



15. The inverter of claim 14, wherein the inverter is a photovoltaic inverter.


16. The inverter of claim 14, wherein the relay arrangement is integrated into a housing of the inverter.


17. A relay arrangement for disconnecting an inverter from a three-phase grid with three active conductors, the relay arrangement comprising:
at least three relays, wherein:
each of the three relays comprises a control coil and two switching contacts operated by the corresponding control coil, and
each switching contact is connected to another switching contact that is assigned to a different one of the relays.



18. The relay arrangement of claim 17, wherein the relay arrangement further comprises self-actuating switches for preventing unintended connection of the inverter to the grid.


19. The relay arrangement of claim 17, wherein each of the relays is separately operable by a corresponding relay driver.


20. The relay arrangement of claim 19, wherein each relay driver is configured to operate the corresponding relay only upon presence of a setting signal of a control unit and an interrupt signal of a watchdog arrangement.


21. The relay arrangement of claim 20, wherein the control unit is permanently monitored by the watchdog arrangement.


22. The relay arrangement of claim 20, wherein each relay driver is configured to be monitored by a test signal of the control unit.


23. The relay arrangement of claim 22, wherein control signals for the control coils are interrupted upon presence of the test signal, a duration of the interruption is selected to be short enough to prevent an opening of switches for disconnecting the inverter from the grid, and a response of the control coils to the test signal is evaluated by the control unit. 

