
A solar power unit having the following features: It can rotate on an axle to face the sun The solar collectors are arranged in a stepped shape. It has mirrors that can fold out to increase the area over which sunlight is collected. There is a protective bonnet that can cover the solar collectors during inclement weather. The invention has a semi-cylindrical main body that rests on a stand, supported by an axle on which it can pivot to track the sun. The stepped solar collectors are on the upper half of the main body and are covered by the mirrors when they fold in. A first embodiment has a battery that stores electricity generated by sunlight and an inverter for converting direct current from the battery to alternating current. A second embodiment has parabolic collectors that heat water to create high pressure steam that is used to generate electricity.



1. A solar power unit, comprising:
a fixed base;
a main body pivotally connected to said fixed base that can rotate to track the sun; and photovoltaic cells in a stepped array on an upper surface of said main body.



2. The solar power unit according to claim 1, further comprising: a battery that stores electricity generated by the photovoltaic cells.


3. The solar power unit according to claim 2, further comprising: an inverter for converting direct current from the battery to alternating current.


4. The solar power unit according to claim 1, further comprising: mirrors that can fold out to increase the area over which sunlight is captured.


5. The solar power unit according to claim 1, further comprising:
a removable cover that can be placed over the solar power unit to protect it from inclement weather.



6. The solar power unit according to claim 1, wherein the main body is manually rotatable


7. The solar power unit according to claim 1, wherein the main body is rotated by a motor.


8. The solar power unit according to claim 7, wherein the motor is controlled by a timer.


9. The solar power unit according to claim 7, wherein the motor is controlled by a solar radiation detector.


10. A solar power unit, comprising:
a fixed base;
a main body pivotally connected to said fixed base that can rotate to track the sun; and parabolic collectors in a stepped array on an upper surface of said main body.



11. A solar power unit according to claim 10, wherein the solar collectors concentrate radiation from the sun to create steam.


12. A solar power unit according to claim 11, wherein the steam is used to create electricity.


13. A solar power unit according to claim 10, further comprising: mirrors that can fold out to increase the area over which sunlight is captured.


14. The solar power unit according to claim 10, further comprising:
a removable cover that can be placed over the solar power unit to protect it from inclement weather.



15. The solar power unit according to claim 10, wherein the main body is manually rotatable.


16. The solar power unit according to claim 10, wherein the main body is rotated by a motor.


17. The solar power unit according to claim 16, wherein the motor is controlled by a timer.


18. The solar power unit according to claim 16, wherein the motor is controlled by a solar radiation detector. 

