
A mounting support for a photovoltaic module is described. The mounting support includes a pedestal having a surface adaptable to receive a flat side of a photovoltaic module laminate. A hole is disposed in the pedestal, the hole adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the pedestal to the flat side of the photovoltaic module laminate.



1. A mounting support for a photovoltaic module, comprising:
a pedestal comprising a surface adaptable to receive a flat side of a photovoltaic module laminate; and
a hole disposed in the pedestal, the hole adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the pedestal to the flat side of the photovoltaic module laminate.



2. The mounting support of claim 1, the pedestal comprising:
a bottom portion detachable from a top portion, the top portion comprising the hole, and the bottom portion comprising a second hole.



3. The mounting support of claim 2, wherein the second hole is adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the bottom portion of the pedestal to a roof or ground support system.


4. The mounting support of claim 2, wherein the second hole is adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the bottom portion of the pedestal to a reflective layer.


5. The mounting support of claim 2, wherein both the bottom portion and the top portion of the pedestal mirror the same dog-bone shape, wherein the top portion comprises three or more additional holes disposed therein, the three or more additional holes adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the pedestal to the flat side of one or more additional photovoltaic module laminates, and wherein the bottom portion comprises three or more additional holes disposed therein, the three or more additional holes adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the pedestal to a roof or ground support system or to one or more reflective layers.


6. The mounting support of claim 2, the pedestal further comprising:
a spacer adaptable to be disposed on, but detachable from, the top portion of the pedestal, the top surface of the spacer above the surface of the pedestal adaptable to receive the flat side of the photovoltaic module laminate.



7. The mounting support of claim 1, the pedestal consisting essentially of a unitary body.


8. A photovoltaic system, comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic module laminates;
a plurality of pedestals, each pedestal comprising:
a surface coupled to a flat side of one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates; and
one or more holes disposed in the pedestal; and

a plurality of bolts or pins to couple each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals to one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates, each bolt or pin disposed through one of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates and inside of one of the one or more holes.



9. The photovoltaic system of claim 8, each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals comprising:
a bottom portion detachable from a top portion, the top portion comprising the one or more holes, and the bottom portion comprising an additional one or more holes.



10. The photovoltaic system of claim 9, wherein the additional one or more holes of the bottom portion is adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the bottom portion of the pedestal to a roof or ground support system.


11. The photovoltaic system of claim 9, wherein the additional one or more holes of the bottom portion is adaptable to receive a bolt or a pin used to couple the bottom portion of the pedestal to a reflective layer.


12. The photovoltaic system of claim 9, wherein both the bottom portion and the top portion of the pedestal mirror the same dog-bone shape, wherein the top portion comprises four or more holes disposed therein, the four or more holes adaptable to receive bolts or pins used to couple the pedestal to the flat side of four photovoltaic module laminates, and wherein the bottom portion comprises four or more holes disposed therein, the four or more holes adaptable to receive bolts or pins used to couple the pedestal to a roof or ground support system or to four reflective layers.


13. The photovoltaic system of claim 9, each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals further comprising:
a spacer adaptable to be disposed on, but detachable from, the top portion of the pedestal, the top surface of the spacer above the surface of the pedestal adaptable to receive the flat side of the one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates, and the spacer adjacent to the one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates.



14. The photovoltaic system of claim 8, each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals consisting essentially of a unitary body.


15. A method for fabricating a photovoltaic system, comprising:
providing a plurality of photovoltaic module laminates;
providing a plurality of pedestals, each pedestal comprising:
a surface for coupling to a flat side of one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates; and
one or more holes disposed in the pedestal; and

coupling each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals to one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates with a plurality of bolts or pins, the coupling comprising inserting each bolt or pin through one of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates and inside of one of the one or more holes.



16. The method of claim 15, wherein providing each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals comprises:
providing a top portion of each pedestal, the top portion comprising the one or more holes; and
providing a bottom portion of each pedestal, the bottom portion detachable from the top portion, and the bottom portion comprising an additional one or more holes; and
coupling the top portion to the bottom portion.



17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
coupling the bottom portion of each pedestal to a roof or ground support system, the coupling comprising inserting a bolt or a pin in each of the additional one or more holes of the bottom portion.



18. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
coupling the bottom portion of each pedestal to a reflective layer, the coupling comprising inserting a bolt or a pin through the reflective layer and inside of one of the additional one or more holes of the bottom portion.



19. The method of claim 16, wherein providing both the bottom portion and the top portion of the pedestal comprises providing portions mirroring the same dog-bone shape, the top portion comprising four or more holes disposed therein, the four or more holes adaptable to receive bolts or pins used to couple the pedestal to the flat side of four photovoltaic module laminates, and the bottom portion comprising four or more holes disposed therein, the four or more holes adaptable to receive bolts or pins used to couple the pedestal to a roof or ground support system or to up to four reflective layers.


20. The method of claim 16, wherein providing each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals further comprises:
providing a spacer on, but detachable from, the top portion of the pedestal, the top surface of the spacer above the surface of the pedestal for coupling to the flat side of the one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates, and the spacer adjacent to one or more of the plurality of photovoltaic module laminates.



21. The method of claim 15, wherein providing each pedestal of the plurality of pedestals comprises providing a pedestal consisting essentially of a unitary body.

