
The present invention is directed to an apparatus and method for improving the power output of a solar energy system. A field level inverter controller is described that may improve the power output of individual solar energy systems in a field of solar energy systems by controlling the inverter voltage applied to strings of solar energy units in a solar energy system connected in parallel to an inverter. An inverter load voltage for an improved power output may be calculated or derived empirically. An algorithm stored in the controller may calculate an improved load voltage for the inverters based on factors such as string geometry, solar movement and shade patterns generated by surrounding structures. Improved power output may be empirically determined by the field level inverter controller when the inverter controller directs an inverter to sweep a range of voltage values until a maximum output is detected.



1. A controller system comprising:
a field of one or more solar energy systems, wherein each system comprises:
two or more electrically connected strings of solar energy units, wherein the strings have an electronic arrangement; and
an inverter applying a load to the strings of solar energy units; and

a field level inverter controller in communication with the inverters in the field of solar energy systems, wherein the controller is capable of receiving input of the electronic arrangement of the strings of solar energy units, and wherein the controller controls the loads applied by individual inverters.



2. The controller system of claim 1, wherein the field level inverter controller is capable of receiving power output levels of the individual solar energy systems.


3. The controller system of claim 2, wherein the field level inverter controller further comprises a first algorithm stored in a storage device, and wherein the algorithm calculates an expected power output of the individual solar energy systems.


4. The controller system of claim 1, wherein the field level inverter controller is capable of receiving locations and dimensions of individual solar arrays and nearby structures in the field of solar energy systems, wherein the controller further comprises a second algorithm stored in a storage device, and wherein the second algorithm calculates a shade pattern on individual solar energy systems based on the locations and dimensions of nearby solar arrays and structures.


5. The controller system of claim 4, wherein the second algorithm uses the calculated shade pattern and the electronic arrangement of solar energy units to calculate a load value for individual inverters to provide improved power output of individual solar energy systems.


6. The controller system of claim 4, wherein the nearby structures are selected from the group consisting of solar energy systems, wind turbines, trees, landscape elements, and buildings.


7. The controller system of claim 1, wherein the solar energy units comprise concentrated photovoltaic solar energy units.


8. The controller system of claim 1, wherein the field level inverter controller is located remotely from the field of solar energy systems.


9. The controller system of claim 1, wherein the field level inverter controller is further capable of commanding the inverter to perform a P-V curve.


10. The controller system of claim 9, wherein the inverter is capable of determining a load value that results in an improved power output level from an individual solar energy system.


11. The controller system of claim 9, wherein the field level inverter controller is further capable of commanding individual inverters to determine a load value that results in an improved power output level from an individual solar energy system.


12. A method for constructing a field level controller system comprising:
providing a field of solar energy systems, wherein each system comprises an inverter and two or more electrically connected strings of solar energy units connected to the inverter;
providing a field level inverter controller, wherein the field level inverter controller is capable of receiving input data and storing an algorithm;
inputting an electronic arrangement of the solar energy units into the field level inverter controller; and
placing the field level inverter controller in communication with the individual inverters in the field of solar energy systems, wherein the controller controls a load applied by individual inverters in the field.



13. The method of claim 12, wherein the solar energy systems are concentrated photovoltaic solar energy systems.


14. The method of claim 12, wherein the field level inverter controller is provided at a remote location from the field of solar energy systems.


15. The method of claim 12 wherein the field level inverter controller further comprises a stored algorithm for calculating the load to be applied by individual inverters in a field resulting in an improved output of the individual solar energy systems.


16. The method of claim 12, wherein the load applied is represented by a global maximum on a P-V curve.


17. The method of claim 15, wherein the algorithm further comprises calculating a shade pattern of nearby structures, and wherein the nearby structures are selected from the group consisting of solar energy systems, wind turbines, trees, landscape elements and buildings.


18. The method of claim 12, wherein the input data comprises detected power levels of individual solar energy systems.


19. A method for maximizing the power output of a solar energy system comprising:
providing a solar energy system, wherein the system comprises two or more solar energy units electrically connected by two or more strings, and wherein the strings have an electronic arrangement and are connected to an inverter;
providing a field level inverter controller comprising a storage device;
inputting the level of power output of the solar energy system into the controller;
inputting the electronic arrangement of the solar energy system into the controller;
placing the field level inverter controller in communication with the inverter;
storing an algorithm in the storage device, wherein the algorithm calculates an expected power output of individual solar energy systems;
determining a load for the inverter that provides an improved power output from the solar energy system; and
commanding the inverter to operate under the determined load condition.



20. The method of claim 19, wherein determining a load for the inverter comprises commanding the inverter to step through a range of load values.


21. The method of claim 19, wherein determining a load for the inverter comprises storing an algorithm that calculates an improved load value. 

