
This invention relates to frame for a solar panel, a solar module, a solar assembly and a method for easy installation of a solar collector to a structure. A support mounts to the structure and a mounting bar attaches to the support. Each frame for holding a solar panel includes tabs that engage the mounting bar or a second frame and includes a self aligning guide. A mounting element receives an anchor to affix the frame to the support. The adjustable interlocking design of this invention allows removal of a solar module without requiring disturbing an adjacent module.



1. A frame for mounting a solar panel to a structure, the frame comprising:
a first side comprising one or more tabs to engage a second frame or a mounting bar; and
a second side comprising at least one mounting element for receiving an anchor to affix the frame to a support on the structure.



2. The frame of claim 1, further comprising at least one guide for aligning the second frame with respect to the second side.


3. The frame of claim 1, wherein the mounting element comprises a slot or a plurality of holes formed in the second side.


4. A solar module for mounting to a structure, the module comprising:
a solar panel; and
a frame enclosing at least a portion of the solar panel, the frame comprising a first side and a second side, the first side comprising one or more tabs to engage a second solar module or a mounting bar, the second side comprising at least one mounting element for receiving an anchor to affix the solar module to a support on the structure.



5. The module of claim 4, further comprising at least one guide for aligning the second solar module with respect to the second side.


6. The module of claim 4, wherein the first side has three tabs spaced apart for receiving a first support and a second support therebetween.


7. The module of claim 4, wherein the one or more tabs project from a lower surface of the module.


8. The module of claim 4, wherein the one or more tabs comprise a tip opposite the first side with a lip for securing the mounting bar or the second solar module.


9. The module of claim 4, wherein the mounting element comprises a slot or a plurality of holes formed in the second side.


10. A solar assembly for mounting to a structure, the assembly comprising:
at least one support for affixing to the structure;
at least one mounting bar affixed to the at least one support;
a first solar module with a first side comprising one or more tabs engaging the at least one mounting bar and a second side comprising at least one mounting element for receiving an anchor; and
at least one anchor attaching each mounting element of the first solar module to the at least one support.



11. The solar assembly of claim 10, further comprising a second solar module with a first side comprising one or more tabs engaging the second side of the first solar module and a second side comprising at least one mounting element for receiving an anchor; and
at least one anchor attaching each mounting element of the second solar module to the at least one support.



12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the second solar module comprises at least one guide aligning the second solar module with respect to the first solar module.


13. The assembly of claim 11, further comprising at least one additional solar module disposed with respect to the second solar module with a first side comprising one or more tabs engaging a second side of an adjacent solar module and a second side comprising at least one mounting element for receiving an anchor; and
at least one anchor attaching each mounting element of each additional solar module to the at least one support.



14. The assembly of claim 11, wherein each solar module detaches from an adjacent module or the at least one mounting bar and does not require disturbing a position of the adjacent module.


15. The assembly of claim 14, wherein each solar module attaches to the at least one support with no more than two anchors.


16. A method of mounting an array of solar modules to a structure, the method comprising:
attaching at least one support to the structure;
attaching at least one mounting bar to the at least one support;
engaging at least one tab from a first side of a first solar module with the at least one mounting bar;
attaching a second side of the first solar module to the at least one support by at least one anchor with a mounting element in the second side;
engaging at least one tab from a first side of a second solar module with the second side of the first solar module; and
attaching a second side of the second solar module to the at least one support by at least one anchor with a mounting element in the second side.



17. The method of claim 16, further comprising engaging at least one tab from a first side of at least one additional solar module with a second side of an adjacent solar module and attaching a second side of the at least one additional solar module by at least one anchor to the at least one support with a mounting element in the second side.


18. The method of claim 16, further comprising aligning the second solar module with the second side of the first solar module by at least one guide on the second side of the first solar module.


19. The method of claim 16, further comprising staging one or more modules on the at least one support.


20. The method of claim 17, further comprising removing a solar module without requiring disturbing a position of the adjacent solar module.

