
An apparatus and method that controls the power produced by a string of solar cells, enabling the string to operate at its maximum power point when connected to a bus that operates at an externally controlled voltage. The apparatus and method can also be used to increase or decrease the output power of a string to any desired operating point.



1. A solar power generation system comprising:
a string of solar cells that are connected in series to generate electrical power; and
an injection circuit with an output connected in series with the string of solar cells and an input connected to an external power source.



2. The system of claim 1, wherein the injection circuit controls power generated by the solar cells from sunlight by injecting power into the string of solar cells to change a power point at which the solar cells operate.


3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a direct current (DC) bus that is connected to the string of solar cells and the injection circuit to receive the electrical power;


4. The system of claim 3, wherein the external power source is the DC bus.


5. The system of claim 3, wherein the external power source is independent of the DC bus.


6. The system of claim 1 wherein the injection circuit includes a power tracking mechanism that can measure the power generated by the solar cells.


7. The system of claim 1, wherein the injection circuit includes a buck converter circuit.


8. The system of claim 1, wherein the injection circuit includes a means to communicate with other injection circuits and a central control point.


9. The system of claim 3, further comprising a direct current (DC) to alternating current (AC) inverter connected to the direct current bus.


10. The system of claim 12, wherein the inverter does not contain internal maximum-power-point tracking circuits.


11. The system of claim 12, wherein the inverter does not contain an internal voltage boost circuit.


12. The system of claim 1, wherein the injection circuit is connected in series between two of the solar cells.


13. A method comprising:
connecting an injection circuit output in series with a string of solar cells;
connecting an input of the injection circuit to an external power source; and
controlling an amount of power injected into the string from the external power source, thereby controlling a power output of the string of solar cells.



14. The method of claim 16, further comprising monitoring a power point of the solar cells with a power point tracking mechanism of the injection circuit.


15. The method of claim 16, wherein controlling the power output of the string of solar cells includes increasing the power generated by the cells from sunlight.


16. The method of claim 16, wherein controlling the power output of the string of solar cells includes decreasing the power generated by the cells from sunlight.


17. The method of claim 16, wherein controlling the power output of the string of solar cells includes decreasing a rate of change of the power generated by the cells from sunlight.


18. A solar power generation system comprising:
a first string of solar cells electrically connected in series between a first conductor and a second conductor, such that the first conductor is at a higher voltage than the second conductor;
a second string of solar cells electrically connected in series between the first conductor and the second conductor, such that the first and second strings of solar cells are connected in parallel between the first and second conductors; and
an injection circuit having an output electrically connected in series with the second string of solar cells at a location between the first conductor and the second conductor, such that the injection circuit can insert electrical power into the second string of solar cells.



19. The system of claim 21, further comprising a second injection circuit having an output electrically connected in series with the first string of solar cells at a location between the first conductor and the second conductor, such that the second injection circuit can insert electrical power into the first string of solar cells.


20. The system of claim 21, wherein the injection circuit controls electrical power generated by the second string of solar cells, by injecting power into the second string of solar cells to change the power point at which the cells operate.


21. The system of claim 21, wherein the injection circuit has an input that is connected to the first conductor.


22. The system of claim 21, wherein the injection circuit has an input that is connected to an external power source.


23. The system of claim 21 wherein the injection circuit includes a power tracking mechanism having an ability to measure the power generated by the second string of solar cells.


24. The system of claim 21 wherein the injection circuit includes a buck converter circuit.


25. The system of claim 21 wherein the injection circuit comprises a means to communicate with other injection circuits and a central control point.


26. The system of claim 21 further comprising a direct current (DC) to alternating current (AC) inverter connected to the first conductor.


27. The system of claim 21 wherein the inverter does not contain internal maximum-power-point tracking circuits.


28. The system of claim 21 wherein the inverter does not contain internal voltage boost circuits.


29. The system of claim 21 wherein the DC input operating voltage of the inverter is higher than the sum of the max power point voltages of the cells in the string.


30. A solar power generation system comprising:
a first string of solar cells electrically connected in series to produce electrical power, the first string connected to a first boost circuit that controls the power output of the first string, the first boost circuit connected between a first conductor and a second conductor, such that the first conductor is at a higher voltage than the second conductor; and
a plurality of strings of solar cells each of which is electrically connected in series to produce electrical power, each of the plurality of strings connected to a respective boost circuit, each of the respective boost circuits controlling the power output of the string to which it is connected, the plurality of boost circuits connected between the first conductor and the second conductor, such that the power output of the first string and the power output of each of the plurality of strings can be independently controlled. 


