
A connecting device for connection to an electrical connection system of a photovoltaic solar module. The connecting device having a connector housing, at least one current-carrying component, and a plurality of diode bodies. The connector housing is positionable on the solar module, with at least one current-carrying component located in the connector housing. The plurality of diode bodies connect together with each other into a diode chain. The diode chain connects with at least one current-carrying component, and includes at least a first and second diode body, each being connected with a common diode lead.



1. A connecting device for connection to an electrical connection system of a photovoltaic solar module, comprising:
a connector housing for positioning on the solar module;
at least one current-carrying component located in the connector housing; and
a plurality of diode bodies connected together into a diode chain, the diode chain connecting with at least one current-carrying component, the diode chain having a first diode body and a second diode body, each connected to a common diode lead.



2. The connecting device according to claim 1, wherein the diode chain connects with the at least one current-carrying component between at least two of the diode bodies.


3. The connecting device according to claim 1, wherein the common diode lead connects to the at least one current-carrying component by welding, crimping, soldering, insulation-displacement or by being plugged thereon.


4. The connecting device according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of current-carrying components.


5. The connecting device according to claim 4, wherein each current-carrying component is a busbar.


6. The connecting device according to claim 5, further comprising a first contact zone located on a first side of the busbar for connection with at least one external electrical conductor of a connecting lead and a second contact zone located on a second side of the busbar for connection with the electrical connection system of the solar module.


7. The connecting device according to claim 5, wherein the busbars are positioned substantially parallel to one another and the diode chain is arranged at an angle to the busbars.


8. The connecting device according to claim 7, wherein the busbars are located an angle substantially perpendicular to the diode chain.


9. The connecting device according to claim 2, wherein the diode chain is in a meandering configuration.


10. The connecting device according to claim 1, wherein the longitudinal axes of the respective diode bodies of the diode chain are parallel to one another.


11. The connecting device according claim 1, wherein the longitudinal axes of at least two of the diode bodies of the diode chain are offset relative to one another in the longitudinal extent of the diode bodies.


12. The connecting device according to claim 1, wherein the longitudinal axes of the respective diode bodies of the diode chain are aligned with one another in the longitudinal extent of the diode bodies.


13. A method of manufacturing a connecting device for connection to an electrical connection system of a photovoltaic solar module, comprising the following steps:
providing at least one current-carrying component for arrangement with a connector housing, the connector housing configured for positioning with respect to the solar module;
providing a plurality of diode bodies connected into a diode chain, the diode bodies having a first diode body and a second diode body, the first and second diode bodies connected to a common diode lead; and
securing and mounting the diode chain with the current-carrying component.



14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the diode chain is formed by cutting to length from a spool of a plurality of connected together diode bodies.


15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the spool is formed by winding connected together diode bodies onto a storage member.

