
A computer processor implemented method of developing irradiance mapping using a distributed network of solar photovoltaic systems, the method comprising the steps of: selecting a predetermined geographic area having at least five solar photovoltaic systems to provide a photovoltaic system; calibrating the photovoltaic system; reversing the photovoltaic system performance model using a computer processor to solve the irradiance input value; calculating irradiance according to irradiance input value, energy output and weather data using the computer processor to provide a single irradiance point; and mapping at least two single irradiance points to create an irradiance map.



1. A computer processor implemented method of developing irradiance mapping using a distributed network of solar photovoltaic systems, said method comprising the steps of:
selecting a predetermined geographic area having at least five solar photovoltaic systems to provide a photovoltaic system;
calibrating the photovoltaic system;
reversing the photovoltaic system performance model using a computer processor to solve the irradiance input value;
calculating irradiance according to said irradiance input value, energy output and weather data using said computer processor to provide a single irradiance point; and
mapping at least two said single irradiance points to create an irradiance map.



2. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of:
Utilizing comparative information from nearby photovoltaic systems to provide at least one comparative information irradiance point; and mapping said at least two said single irradiance points and said at least one comparative information irradiance point to create said irradiance map.



3. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of:
smoothing said at least two said single irradiance points.



4. A method as in claim 1, wherein said step of determining an irradiance input value is from said system performance values, said calibrated system performance model and the temperature.


5. A method as in claim 4, further comprising the step of:
predicting irradiance based on extrapolation of current data and weather forecasts.



6. A method as in claim 5, wherein said temperature is obtained from a third party internet weather feed source and saved in said at least one data server.


7. A method as in claim 4, wherein said temperature is obtained by a temperature probe attached to said solar powered system.


8. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of:
automatically determining system configuration information for said solar photovoltaic systems;
utilizing said system configuration information to perform the step of reversing the photovoltaic system performance model using a computer processor to solve the irradiance input value.



9. A method as in claim 8, wherein said step of automatically determining system configuration is further comprising the steps of:
constructing a data set of at least one standard performance curve for at least one system type to provide a data set with at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves and saving said data set with at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves in at least one data server;
defining at least one characteristic feature for each said at least one system type to provide at least one system type and correlated characteristic feature and saving said at least one system type and correlated characteristic feature in said at least one data server;
determining the required data to identify said at least one system type according to at least one of said standard performance curve and said characteristic feature;
remotely acquiring said required data for at least one solar photovoltaic system to provide acquired solar photovoltaic systems data and saving said acquired solar photovoltaic systems data in said at least one data server;
comparing system acquired solar photovoltaic systems data to said at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves and said system type and correlated characteristic features to provide system configuration information for at least one solar photovoltaic system to provide the specific type of said at least one solar photovoltaic system.



10. A method of creating irradiance mapping using a distributed network of solar systems, said method comprising the steps of;
providing at least two solar powered systems, at least one data server, at least one generation monitoring device in communication with at least two solar powered systems and at least one communication node in communication with at least one of said solar powered systems, said generation monitoring device and said data server,
determining system performance for each said at least two solar powered systems to provide system performance values;
saving said system performance values in said at least one data server;
calibrating a system performance model for a group of said at least two powered systems to provide a calibrated system performance model;
saving said calibrated system performance model in said at least one data server;
determining an irradiance input value from said system performance values and said calibrated system performance model;
gathering the power generated from each said at least one generation monitoring device communicated from said at least one communication node and saved in said data server;
determining the irradiance for a particular time according to at least one of said irradiance input value and said power generated to provide a single irradiance point;
mapping at least five said single irradiance points to create an irradiance map.



11. A method as in claim 10, further comprising the step of:
Utilizing comparative information from nearby systems to provide at least one comparative information irradiance point; and mapping said at least five said single irradiance points and said at least one comparative information irradiance point to create said irradiance map.



12. A method as in claim 10, further comprising the step of:
smoothing said at least five said single irradiance points.



13. A method as in claim 10, wherein said step of determining an irradiance input value is from said system performance values, said calibrated system performance model and the temperature.


14. A method as in claim 10, further comprising the step of:
predicting irradiance based on extrapolation of current data and weather forecasts.



15. A method as in claim 10, wherein said temperature is obtained from a third party internet weather feed source and saved in said at least one data server.


16. A method as in claim 10, wherein said temperature is obtained by a temperature probe attached to said solar powered system.


17. A method as in claim 10, further comprising the step of:
automatically determining system configuration information for said solar powered system;
utilizing said system configuration information to perform the step of reversing the photovoltaic system performance model using a computer processor to solve the irradiance input value.



18. A method as in claim 17, wherein said step of automatically determining system configuration is further comprising the steps of:
constructing a data set of at least one standard performance curve for at least one system type to provide a data set with at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves and saving said data set with at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves in at least one data server;
defining at least one characteristic feature for each said at least one system type to provide at least one system type and correlated characteristic feature and saving said at least one system type and correlated characteristic feature in said at least one data server;
determining the required data to identify said at least one system type according to at least one of said standard performance curve and said characteristic feature;
remotely acquiring said required data for at least one solar powered system to provide acquired solar powered system data and saving said acquired solar powered system data in said at least one data server;
comparing system acquired solar powered system data to said at least one system type and correlated standard performance curves and said system type and correlated characteristic features to provide system configuration information for at least one solar powered system to provide the specific type of said at least one solar powered system.


