
A stand is assumed to be a stand having a triangular structure, increases the strength between the front end portion of a mounting bar and a bracket and readily positions a solar cell module even without particularly increasing the number of components, and further prevents the corrosion of the bracket and metal fittings around the bracket.
Abutting portions 73m of a front bracket 73 position a frame member 21 of a solar cell module 2 such that the frame member juts out beyond a bottom plate 73a of the front bracket 73 toward the abutting portions 73m. Accordingly, even if rainwater infiltrates the space between the solar cell module 2 and a mounting bar 11, gradually runs along the bottom face of the solar cell module 2, and turns into waterdrops W, and then the waterdrops W drop from the edge portion of the solar cell module 2, the waterdrops W will not fall on the bottom plate 73a of the front bracket 73 and the base rail 71. 



1. A structure installation stand comprising a front bracket fixed onto a base face and a mounting bar on which a structure is mounted, the mounting bar being inclined relative to the base face, and a front end portion of the inclined mounting bar being fixed with the front bracket,
wherein the front bracket has an abutting portion that abuts against an edge portion on an inclined lower side of the structure mounted on the inclined mounting bar.



2. The structure installation stand according to claim 1,
wherein the mounting bar and the structure are prevented from moving by the edge portion on the inclined lower side of the structure abutting against the abutting portion of the front bracket.



3. The structure installation stand according to claim 1,
wherein the front bracket has a bottom portion that abuts against the base face, and a side wall portion that is arranged upright from the bottom portion, the side wall portion is fastened to the front end portion of the inclined mounting bar, a front edge side of the side wall portion protrudes above the front end portion of the mounting bar so as to form the abutting portion, and the abutting portion abuts against the edge portion on the inclined lower side of the structure mounted on the mounting bar.



4. The structure installation stand according to claim 1,
wherein the edge portion on the inclined lower side of the structure is positioned, by the abutting portion of the front bracket, so as to jut out beyond the bottom portion of the front bracket.



5. The structure installation stand according to claim 1,
wherein a base rail having a hat-shaped cross section is used as a base, an open side of the hat shape of the base rail is facing upward, brim-shaped flat plate portions on both sides of the hat shape of the base rail serve as the base face, and the front bracket is fixed so as to overlap the brim-shaped flat plate portions on both sides of the hat shape on the open side of the hat shape of the base rail.



6. The structure installation stand according to claim 1, comprising:
a rear bracket that is fixed onto the base face so as to be spaced apart from the front bracket; and
a vertical bar that connects and joins the mounting bar to the rear bracket.



7. A solar cell system in which a plurality of the structure installation stands according to claim 1 are arranged side by side, and a solar cell module is mounted on the structure installation stands.


8. The solar cell system according to claim 7,
wherein two base rails each having a hat-shaped cross section are fixed parallel to each other, with an open side of the hat shape of the base rails facing upward, and brim-shaped flat plate portions on both sides of the hat shape of the base rails serve as a base face,
the front bracket of each of the structure installation stands is fixed so as to overlap the brim-shaped flat plate portions on both sides of the hat shape of one of the base rails,
the rear bracket of each of the structure installation stands is fixed so as to overlap the brim-shaped flat plate portions on both sides of the hat shape of the other base rail, and
the front end portion of the inclined mounting bar of each of the structure installation stands is fastened to the front bracket, and the vertical bar is inserted and fixed between the inclined mounting bar and the rear bracket of each of the structure installation stands.


