
The invention relates to a solar module attachment, comprising a Z-support (2), the one Z-side (2.1) of which is used directly as a roof attachment or can be connected to roof hooks or support posts in the case of a mounting system, while clamps (5) can be displaced over the other Z-side (2.2), the attachment means engaging in said clamps in order to fix solar module frames (1).



1. A solar panel mount, comprising a Z-shaped support (2), one Z leg (2.1) of which is mounted directly to the roof or can be connected to roof hooks or upright posts in the case of a rack mounting solution while clamps (5) can be slid onto the other Z leg (2.2) and mounting means engage in said clamps to fix solar panel frames (1) in position.


2. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the clamps (5) have a U-shaped cross-section.


3. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the upper leg (5.1) of the clamps (5) serve as a rest for solar panel frames (1), or the upper leg (5.1) of the clamps (5) is located between adjacent solar panel frames (1) if the solar panel frames (1) rest on the Z leg (2.2).


4. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the upper legs (5.1) comprise at least one threaded bore (8) into which a mounting bolt (7) can be screwed to fix at least one solar panel frame (1) in position on the clamp (5) or the Z leg (2.2).


5. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the mounting bolt (7) or another mounting means passes through the leg (5.1) located on the side of the solar panel frame of the clamp (5) and enters or passes through the Z leg (2.2) when solar panel frames (1) are fixed in position.


6. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein at least the leg (5.1), preferably both legs of the clamp (5) and the associated Z leg (2.2), comprise(s) a bore through which a mounting bolt (7) is passed once the bores are aligned, which bolt can then be tightened by means of a nut.


7. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the Z leg (2.2) comprises a threaded bore (8) into which a mounting bolt (8) that is passed through a bore in the upper leg (5.1) of the clamp (5) can be screwed to fix solar panel frames (1) and the clamp (5) in position.


8. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the connective portion between the Z legs (2.1, 2.2) is at right angles with each of the Z legs (2.1) and/or 2.2.


9. A method for mounting a solar panel to a roof, the method comprising
forming a Z-shaped support (2),
mounting one Z leg (2.1) of Z-shaped support (2) directly to a roof , or connecting to roof hooks or upright posts in the case of a rack mounting solution, and
sliding clamps (5) onto the other Z leg (2.2) and engaging mounting means in said clamps to fix a solar panel frame (1) in position.


