
An energy transfer module coupled to a thermal solar module includes a body having a first end member, a second end member, and four side members configured to enclose a first spatial region within a vicinity of the first end member and a second spatial region within a vicinity of the second end member. The first spatial region is in communication with the second spatial region. The module further includes one or more inlet openings provided at the first end member for inputting fluid flow from the thermal solar module. The module also includes an air filter disposed within the first spatial region to remove one or more impurities from the fluid flow. Additionally, the module includes a fan disposed between the first spatial region and the second spatial region to draw the fluid flow through the air filter. The fan is coupled to a drive motor. The module further includes a heat exchanger disposed in the first spatial region and an outlet provided on the second end member. Furthermore, the module includes an electrical source coupled to the fan. The electrical source is configured to power the drive motor to draw fluid flow through the heat exchanger.



1. An energy transfer module coupled to a thermal solar module, the energy transfer module comprising:
a body including a first end member, a second end member, and four side members configured to enclose a first spatial region within a vicinity of the first end member and a second spatial region within a vicinity of the second end member, the first spatial region being in communication with the second spatial region;
one or more inlet openings provided at the first end member for inputting fluid flow from the thermal solar module;
an air filter disposed within the first spatial region to remove one or more impurities from the fluid flow;
a fan disposed between the first spatial region and the second spatial region to draw the fluid flow through the air filter, the fan coupled to a drive motor;
a heat exchanger disposed in the first spatial region;
an outlet provided on the second end member; and
an electrical source coupled to the fan, the electrical source being configured to power the drive motor to draw fluid flow through the heat exchanger.



2. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein each of the one or more inlet openings comprises a 5-inch diameter collar for coupling to an insulated flexible duct connected to the thermal solar module.


3. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the fan comprises backward curved impellers with continuous duty to drive the airflow with a range of static pressures including an inlet pressure in the first spatial region and an outlet pressure in the second spatial region.


4. The energy transfer module of claim 3 wherein the range of static pressures is measured by 0.1 to 1.50 ft of H2O column.


5. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the drive motor is disposed by a gauge mounting bracket coupled at least partially to the four side members.


6. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the air filter comprises a two-inch thick pleated MERV 7 air filter with air filtration rate up to 900 CFM.


7. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the heat exchanger comprises a coil made by two rows of aluminum finned copper tube for transferring heat carried by the fluid flow to water within the copper tube.


8. The energy transfer module of claim 7 wherein the copper tube comprises an entry port connected to a first water line to allow cold water being pumped from a water tank and an exit port connected to a second water line to output the heated water back to the water tank.


9. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the outlet opening comprises a ten-inch diameter collar for coupling to a powered damper and ducting to either a conditioned space or an exhaust to outside.


10. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the controller comprises a 30-120 VAC power supply for driving the motor with a modulated airflow from 30 to 100% of a predetermined rate.


11. The energy transfer module of claim 10 wherein the controller generates a control signal for driving the fan based on at least a temperature load including a first temperature at the inlet opening, a second temperature after passing through the heat exchanger, and a third temperature in the water tank.


12. The energy transfer module of claim 1 wherein the thermal solar module can be any combination of a photovoltaic panel, a thermal panel, an insulated glass panel, a heating pad.


13. A system for delivering thermal energy generated by a solar panel for a building structure, the system comprising:
an air plenum associated with the solar panel mounted over a roof of the building structure;
an energy transfer module comprising one or more air inlets, a heat exchanger, a motor blower, an electrical box, and at least an air outlet, each of the one or more air inlets connecting the air plenum via an insulated flexible duct, the motor blower drawing an airflow from the air plenum through the heat exchanger, the air outlet connected through a powered damper to either a conditioned space or an outside exhaust;
a pair of water lines including a first water line and a second water line for circulating water between a water tank and the heat exchanger; and
a controller coupled to the energy transfer module through the electrical box including a high-voltage power supply ranging from 30 VAC to 120 VAC and a low-voltage control voltage supply less than 30 VAC or 10 VDC.



14. The system of claim 13 wherein the air plenum is configured to allow ambient air passing by a bottom surface of the solar panel to take at least partial heat with.


15. The system of claim 13 wherein the solar panel can be a combination of a photovoltaic cell, a thermal solar module, and an insulated glass panel.


16. The system of claim 13 wherein the energy transfer module can be mounted substantially vibration free with suspension using chains and springs in a region of the building structure accessible to the solar panel.


17. The system of claim 13 wherein the motor blower comprises a backward curved impeller driven by the high-voltage power supply from the controller with 30%-100% flow rate modulation via a control signal generated by the low-voltage control voltage supply from the controller.


18. The system of claim 13 wherein the heat exchanger comprises a heat reclamation coil made from aluminum finned copper tubing including an inlet port and an outlet port.


19. The system of claim 18 wherein the first water line comprises a pump to supply water from the water tank into the coil via the inlet port.


20. The system of claim 13 wherein the controller comprises a plurality of sensors for measuring at least an inlet air temperature near the air inlet, an outlet air temperature near the air outlet, a water-tank temperature, an inlet static pressure, and an outlet static pressure.


21. The system of claim 20 wherein the controller generates a control signal for adjusting the airflow through the heat exchanger using the motor blower and the airflow through the air outlet using the powered damper based on the inlet air temperature, an outlet air temperature, and a water-tank temperature measured by the plurality of sensors.


22. The system of claim 21 wherein the inlet air temperature is at least 10 degrees higher than the water-tank temperature.


23. An energy transfer module comprising:
a shaped body assembled from a plurality of side members, at least one of the plurality of side members including two or more air inlets and at least another one of the plurality of side members including an air outlet, the air inlets being configured to couple to a heating source for receiving an airflow;
an air handling unit attached to one or more of the plurality of side members between the two or more air inlets and the air outlet and configured to be slid at least partially out of the shaped casing body, the air handling unit comprising a heat exchanger, a fan, and an electrical box; and
a controller coupled to the electrical box to drive the fan for drawing the airflow through the heat exchanger from the two or more air inlets to the air outlet.



24. The energy transfer module of claim 23 wherein the heat exchanger comprises a coil made of aluminum finned copper tubing having an inlet port and an outlet port respectively communicated with a water tank.


25. The energy transfer module of claim 23 wherein the electrical box is attached to a side member from outside for easy coupling to the controller.


26. The energy transfer module of claim 23 wherein the fan comprises a backward curved motorized impeller with continuous duty of flow speed control.

