
A photovoltaic module for mounting to a roof overlying rafters, wherein the rafters have a given spacing, and wherein the photovoltaic module is to be mounted to the roof with a desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules, the photovoltaic module having a width which is a multiple of the given spacing between rafters, after taking into account the desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules.



1. A photovoltaic module for mounting to a roof overlying rafters, wherein the rafters have a given spacing, and wherein the photovoltaic module is to be mounted to the roof with a desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules, the photovoltaic module having a width which is a multiple of the given spacing between rafters, after taking into account the desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules.


2. A method for mounting an array of photovoltaic modules to a roof overlying rafters, wherein the rafters have a given spacing, the method comprising:
determining a desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules;
providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules each having a width which is a multiple of the given spacing between rafters, after taking into account the desired spacing between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules; and
mounting each photovoltaic module to the roof by securing each photovoltaic module to a rafter underlying the roof, with each photovoltaic module being spaced from a horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic module by the desired spacing.



3. A photovoltaic module for mounting to a roof overlying rafters, wherein the rafters have a spacing R, and wherein the photovoltaic module is to be mounted to the roof with a spacing H between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules, the photovoltaic module having a width W, wherein:


W=xR−H 


and further wherein x is an integer value of 1 or more.


4. A method for mounting an array of photovoltaic modules to a roof overlying rafters, wherein the rafters have a spacing of R, the method comprising:
determining a desired spacing H between horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic modules;
determining a preferred width W for each photovoltaic module in the array according to the formula:


W=xR−H 



where x is an integer value of 1 or more;
providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules of width W; and
mounting each photovoltaic module to the roof by securing each photovoltaic module to a rafter underlying the roof, with each photovoltaic module being spaced from a horizontally-adjacent photovoltaic module by a distance H.



5. A photovoltaic module for mounting to a roof comprising shingles, wherein each of the shingles has a face of a given length, and wherein the photovoltaic module is to be mounted to the roof with a north foot and a south foot, wherein the north foot has a given effective length and the south foot has a given effective length, the photovoltaic module having a length which, when added to the length of the north foot and the south foot, is a multiple of the given length of a shingle face.


6. A method for mounting an array of photovoltaic modules to a roof comprising shingles, wherein each of the shingles has a face of a given length, and wherein each of the photovoltaic modules is to be mounted to the roof with a north foot and a south foot, wherein the north foot has a given effective length and the south foot has a given effective length, the method comprising:
providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules each having a length which, when added to the effective length of its associated north foot and associated south foot, is a multiple of the given length of a shingle face; and
mounting each photovoltaic module to the roof by securing the north foot of that photovoltaic module to a single shingle face and securing the south foot of that photovoltaic module to a single shingle face.



7. A photovoltaic module for mounting to a roof comprising shingles, wherein each of the shingles has a face of length F, and wherein the photovoltaic module is to be mounted to the roof with a north foot having a effective length N′ and a south foot having a effective length S′, the photovoltaic module having a length L, wherein:


L=xF−N′−S′


and further wherein x is an integer value of 1 or more.


8. A method for mounting an array of photovoltaic modules to a roof comprising shingles, wherein each of the shingles has a face of length F, and wherein each of the photovoltaic modules is to be mounted to the roof with a north foot having a effective length N′ and a south foot having a effective length S′, the method comprising:
providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules of length L, wherein


L=xF−N′−S′



where x is an integer value of 1 or more; and
mounting each photovoltaic module to the roof by securing the north foot of that photovoltaic module to a single shingle face and securing the south foot of that photovoltaic module to a single shingle face. 


