
An isolation mount for supporting, for example, a photovoltaic cell. The isolation mount includes an isolator body, a first membrane adjacent to a lower surface of the body, and a second membrane extending over the isolator body that includes a peripheral margin that is at least partially sealed or adhered to the first membrane. At least one connector is supported by the isolator body and at least one fastener extends through the second membrane to secure the connector to the isolator body. The connector may include a mounting rail, posts, or an air channel assembly. The isolation mount construction may be incorporated into a photovoltaic module or photovoltaic roofing system for use on the roof of a building.



1. An isolation mount, comprising:
an isolator body having upper and lower surfaces;
a first membrane adjacent to said lower surface;
a second membrane extending over said isolator body and including a peripheral margin that is sealed to said first membrane;
at least one connector supported by said isolator body; and
at least one fastener extending through said second membrane and securing said at least one connector to said isolator body.



2. An isolation mount according to claim 1 wherein said isolator body is a thermal barrier.


3. An isolation mount according to claim 1 including a relief fitting extending through said second membrane.


4. An isolation mount according to claim 1 wherein said at least one fastener extends from said isolator body.


5. An isolation mount according to claim 4 wherein said at least one connector includes a mounting rail.


6. An isolation mount according to claim 4 wherein said at least one connector includes an air channel assembly.


7. An isolation mount according to claim 4 wherein said at least one connector includes a mounting post.


8. An isolation mount according to claim 7 wherein said at least one post extends through said second membrane.


9. An isolation mount according to claim 8 including a connector seal extending around each said at least one post, said connector seal including a flange portion sealed to said second membrane.


10. An isolation mount according to claim 1 including a washer element interposed between said isolator body and said second membrane, wherein said at least one fastener extends from said washer element.


11. An isolation mount according to claim 10 including a third membrane interposed between said isolator body and said washer element.


12. An isolation mount according to claim 1 wherein the seal is at least one of a hermetic seal or a waterproof seal.


13. A photovoltaic module for use on the roof of a building, comprising:
at least one isolator body having upper and lower surfaces;
a first membrane adjacent to said lower surface;
a second membrane extending over said isolator body and including a peripheral margin that is sealed to said first membrane; and
at least one photovoltaic cell secured to said isolator body.



14. A photovoltaic module according to claim 13 including an air channel assembly interposed between said isolator body and said photovoltaic cell.


15. A photovoltaic module according to claim 13 wherein said photovoltaic cell is secured to said second membrane with adhesive.


16. A photovoltaic module according to claim 13 wherein said photovoltaic cell is secured to said second membrane with cooperative hook and loop material.


17. A photovoltaic module according to claim 13 including a plurality of connectors supported by said isolator body and wherein said photovoltaic cell is secured by said connectors.


18. A photovoltaic module according to claim 17 including at least one fastener extending from said second membrane and securing each said connector to said isolator body.


19. A photovoltaic module according to claim 18 wherein said at least one fastener is captive to said membrane by a washer that is induction welded to said membrane.


20. A photovoltaic module according to claim 18 including a roof deck panel supporting said module.


21. A photovoltaic module according to claim 17 wherein said photovoltaic cell is a non-glass solar panel and said connectors secure said solar panel along at least a portion of one of its edges.


22. A photovoltaic module according to claim 21 wherein said connectors each comprise a clip.


23. A photovoltaic module according to claim 21 wherein said connectors each comprise a strap.


24. A photovoltaic roofing system for use on the roof of a building, the system comprising:
at least one isolator body;
a first membrane disposed between said at least one isolator body and the building;
at least one second membrane extending over said at least one isolator body;
means to seal the first membrane to the at least one second membrane;
a plurality of connectors supported by said at least one isolator body; and
at least one photovoltaic cell mounted to said connectors.



25. A photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 24 including at least one fastener extending through said second membrane and securing each said connector to said isolator body.


26. A photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 25 wherein each connector includes a mounting rail.


27. A photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 25 wherein each connector includes a mounting post.


28. A photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 24 including a roof deck disposed between said first membrane and said building.


29. A method for deploying a photovoltaic system on a surface, the method comprising:
pre-assembling a first membrane and a second membrane to form a cavity, said second membrane including a plurality of connectors;
securing said first membrane to the surface;
filling said cavity with foam; and
mounting at least one photovoltaic cell to said connectors.



30. The method according to claim 29 including induction welding a captive fastener to said second membrane.


31. The method according to claim 29 wherein said foam is injected into said cavity.


32. The method according to claim 29 wherein said surface is the ground and wherein said first membrane is comprised of geomembrane material.


33. The method according to claim 32 wherein said first membrane is secured to the ground with a plurality of stakes.

