
A solar module includes a photovoltaic device that is partially encapsulated on a front side by a laminate layer. A front substrate is located over the laminate layer. The photovoltaic device is also at least partially encapsulated on a back side by a pressure sensitive adhesive layer. The adhesive layer acts as an encapsulant to protect the photovoltaic device as well as acts as an adhesive for attachment to a substrate.



1. A solar module comprising:
a photovoltaic device operable to generate an electrical current from light, the photovoltaic device having a front side for receiving light;
a laminate at least partially covering the front side of the photovoltaic device;
a front layer affixed to the laminate wherein the front layer is at least partially transparent; and
an adhesive having a first adhesive side and a second adhesive side opposed to the first adhesive side, wherein the first adhesive side is adhered to at least the laminate and to the front layer along a periphery of the front layer.



2. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the photovoltaic device includes a back side opposed to the front side, and wherein the laminate covers the back side of the photovoltaic device.


3. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the photovoltaic device includes a back side opposed to the front side, and wherein the first adhesive side of the adhesive is adhered to the back side of the photovoltaic device.


4. The solar module of claim 1 further comprising a release liner removably attached to the second adhesive side of the adhesive.


5. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive and the front layer completely surround the laminate layer and the photovoltaic device.


6. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the front layer includes a top surface and a bottom surface opposed to the top surface, wherein the laminate is in contact with the front layer on a first portion the bottom surface and the adhesive is adhered to the front layer on a second portion of the bottom surface, and wherein the second portion is disposed along a periphery of the first portion.


7. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive includes a reinforcing material operable to affect the cut and puncture resistance of the adhesive.


8. The solar module of claim 7 wherein the reinforcing material is dispersed within the adhesive.


9. The solar module of claim 7 wherein the reinforcing material is comprised of at least one layer disposed between the first adhesive side and the second adhesive side.


10. The solar module of claim 7 wherein the reinforcing material is selected from a group consisting of glass, polyester, aramid, nylon, and polyolefin.


11. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.5 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


12. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.3 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


13. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.2 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


14. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive has a tensile strength from about 5 pounds per square inch (psi) to about 20 psi when uncured and has a tensile strength over 20 psi when cured.


15. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive has a volume resistivity of approximately 5E-15ρ and a surface resistivity of approximately 3E+14σ.


16. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the laminate is selected from the group consisting of ethylene vinyl acetate, polydimethylsiloxanes, thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), ionomeric polymers, polyvinylbutyral (PVB), EPDM, and thermoplastic polyolefins (TPO).


17. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive comprises:
a rubbery polymer blend including ethylene propylene norbornadiene terpolymer, ethylene propylene dicyclopentadiene terpolymer, ethylene propylene hexadiene terpolymer, halobutyl rubber, polyisobutylene, polybutene, or other polyolefins, or combinations thereof;
at least one of a tackifier or a curing agent blend, wherein the tackifier includes a phenolic tackifier resin, and wherein the curing agent blend includes a cure accelerator, a sulfur or peroxide activator, and a curing vulcanizing agent; and
a desiccant or water scavenger present in an amount from about 2% to about 8% by weight.



18. The solar module of claim 17 wherein the water scavenger is calcium oxide.


19. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive is comprised of polymers of acrylic, isobutylene, butadiene, acrylonitrile, epoxy, cyanoacrylate, EVA, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, urethane, silane modified urethane, silane terminated urethane, bitumens, natural rubber, block copolymer rubber, phenolic or hydrocarbon resins, or vinyl chloride, or combinations thereof.


20. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive is thermoplastic.


21. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive is thermosetting.


22. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive cures prior to removal from a laminating machine.


23. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the adhesive cures after removal from a laminating machine.


24. The solar module of claim 1 wherein the photovoltaic device is a flexible photovoltaic device.


25. A solar module comprising:
a photovoltaic device operable to generate an electrical current from light, the photovoltaic device having a front side for receiving the light;
a laminate at least partially covering the front side of the photovoltaic device;
a front layer affixed to the laminate wherein the front layer is at least partially transparent; and
an adhesive layer having a first adhesive side and a second adhesive side opposed to the first adhesive side, wherein the first adhesive side is adhered to at least the laminate, and wherein the adhesive layer comprises:
a rubbery polymer blend including ethylene propylene norbornadiene terpolymer, ethylene propylene dicyclopentadiene terpolymer, ethylene propylene hexadiene terpolymer, halobutyl rubber, polyisobutylene or polybutene or other polyolefins or combinations thereof;
at least one of a tackifier or a curing agent blend, wherein the tackifier includes a phenolic tackifier resin, and wherein the curing agent blend includes a cure accelerator, a sulfur or peroxide activator, and a curing vulcanizing agent; and
a desiccant or water scavenger present in an amount from about 2% to about 8% by weight.




26. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the photovoltaic device includes a back side opposed to the front side, and wherein the laminate covers the back side of the photovoltaic device.


27. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the photovoltaic device includes a back side opposed to the front side, and wherein the first adhesive side of the adhesive layer is adhered to the back side of the photovoltaic device.


28. The solar module of claim 25 further comprising a release liner removably attached to the second adhesive side of the adhesive layer.


29. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer includes a reinforcing material operable to affect the cut and puncture resistance of the adhesive layer.


30. The solar module of claim 29 wherein the reinforcing material is dispersed within the adhesive layer.


31. The solar module of claim 29 wherein the reinforcing material is comprised of at least one layer disposed between the first adhesive side and the second adhesive side.


32. The solar module of claim 29 wherein the reinforcing material is selected from a group consisting of glass, polyester, aramid, nylon, and polyolefin.


33. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.5 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


34. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.3 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


35. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer has a moisture vapor transmission rate of less than about 0.2 g/m2/day at 38° C. at a thickness of 60-80 mils.


36. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer has a tensile strength from about 5 pounds per square inch (psi) to about 40 psi when uncured and has a tensile strength from about 50 psi to about 100 psi when cured.


37. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer has a volume resistivity of approximately 5E-15ρ and a surface resistivity of approximately 3E-14σ.


38. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the laminate layer is comprised of ethylene vinyl acetate, polydimethylsiloxanes, thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), ionomeric polymers, polyvinylbutyral (PVB), EPDM, or thermoplastic polyolefins (TPO).


39. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the water scavenger is calcium oxide.


40. The solar module of claim 25 wherein the adhesive layer and the front layer completely surround the laminate layer and the photovoltaic device.


41. A method for assembling a solar module, the method comprising:
stacking a front layer, a laminate layer, at least one photovoltaic device, an adhesive layer, and a release liner to form a stack in a laminating machine;
applying a vacuum to the stack to remove air from the stack;
applying pressure to the stack at an elevated temperature to form the solar module; and
removing the solar module from the laminating machine.



42. The method of claim 41 whereby an encapsulated, sealed photovoltaic panel is completed within the lamination step. 

