
The invention relates to an autonomously working monitoring system (10), a method for monitoring and maintenance of power grid distributed power generation devices (14) and a related computer program product. The system comprises at least one power performance monitoring unit (12) for monitoring, analyzing and storing at least power performance data (70) of at least one power generation device (14);

    at least one power generation device (14) comprising at least one power generation module (16) for generation of electric power and at least one inverter module (18) for feeding in electric power of said power generation module (16) to a power grid (20);
    and an external network (22) connecting one or more power generation devices (14) with said power performance monitoring unit (12).


The power generation device (14) further comprises

    at least one data acquisition module (24) for measuring of power output of each power generation module (16);
    at least one inverter measuring module (26) for measuring of power output of said inverter (18) to the power grid (20);
    a data interface module (28) in power line communication with said data acquisition module (24), and in communication with said inverter measuring module (26) and said external network (22) for sending power performance data (70) of said power generation device (14) to said power performance monitoring unit (12) including power generation module ID (66) and inverter ID (68), and/or for autonomously sending a maintenance notice for requesting a maintenance action based on at least a specific power performance pattern.





1. An autonomous monitoring system for power grid distributed power generation devices comprising
at least one power performance monitoring unit for monitoring, analyzing and storing at least power performance data of at least one power generation device;
at least one power generation device comprising at least one power generation module for generation of electric power and at least one inverter module for feeding in electric power of said power generation module to a power grid (20); and
an external network connecting one or more power generation devices with said power performance monitoring unit; characterized in that the power generation device further comprises at least one data acquisition module for measuring of power output of each power generation module;
at least one inverter measuring module for measuring of power output of said inverter to the power grid; and
a data interface module in power-line communication with said data acquisition module and in communication with said inverter measuring module and said external network for sending power performance data of said power generation device to said power performance monitoring unit including power generation module ID and inverter ID and/or for autonomously sending a maintenance notice for requesting a maintenance action based on at least a specific power performance pattern.



2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the power generation module comprises a DC power generation module, preferably a renewable DC power generation module, particularly a solar cell module; and
the inverter comprises a DC/AC inverter, preferably a 3 phase inverter.



3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the power generation module comprises one or more power generation cells, preferably solar cells, and the data acquisition module measures power output of at least one cell or a group of cells of the power generation module.


4. The system according to claim 3, characterized in that at least the data acquisition module and the inverter measuring module outputs digital power performance data comprising voltage and current values and is connected to the data interface module via a power line communication (PLC) channel.


5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the data interface module comprises a power performance data memory for storing of power performance data of at least one data acquisition module and/or inverter measuring module.


6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the data interface module comprises a power performance analyzing unit for analyzing power performance data of at least one data acquisition module and/or inverter measuring module based on at least a specific power performance pattern and for creating and sending power performance data and/or a maintenance notice over the external network to said power performance monitoring unit.


7. The system according to claim 6, characterized in that the power performance monitoring unit comprises a network application server, especially a web application server, allowing autonomous update, monitoring, evaluation of power performance data and/or of maintenance notice of at least one power generation device over a network.


8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the power performance monitoring unit comprises a power generation module database for storing of power performance data and/or maintenance notice of at least one power generation device over a period of time and/or comprises a maintenance analyzing unit for generating and signaling a maintenance notice of a power generation device over a network.


9. A method for autonomous maintenance of distributed power generation devices in a power grid, comprising:
accessing power performance data comprising a module ID from each of one or more data acquisition modules via power line communication and each of one or more inverter measuring modules, preferably via power line communication, by a data interface module of each of one or more power generation devices;
storing, analyzing and autonomously sending power performance data and/or maintenance notice based on at least a power performance pattern for requesting a maintenance action by the one or more data interface modules to at least one power performance monitoring unit via an external network;
providing said maintenance action assigned to said maintenance notice.



10. The method according to claim 9, wherein accessing power performance data from at least one data acquisition module and/or inverter measuring module by the data interface module is performed using a packet oriented data protocol, wherein each packet comprises at least a packet header, a source address, a power performance data block including voltage and current values and a packet trailer.


11. The method according to claim 10, wherein accessing power performance data and/or sending power performance data and/or maintenance notice is performed either periodically or by request from the data interface module or the power performance monitoring unit respectively.


12. The method according to claim 11, wherein power performance data and/or maintenance notice of at least one power generation module can be accessed through a network, preferably internet by a network application, preferably a web application hosted by a power performance monitoring unit.


13. The method according to claim 12, wherein power performance data of at least one data acquisition module and/or inverter measuring module is compared with one or more power performance data pattern based on historical data, wherein each of said power performance data patterns is assigned to a specific maintenance notice and whereby said maintenance notice is generated if the comparison of the power performance data of said power generation module matches within a specific power performance data pattern.


14. The method according to claim 13, wherein
a maintenance notice is generated and signaled if power performance data values of a power generation device are low for a predefined time compared with historical values and/or power performance data values of other comparable power generation devices.



15. A program product comprising a computer useable medium including a computer readable program, wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer of a data interface module of at least one or more power generation devices causes the computer to perform the following steps:
accessing power performance data comprising a module ID from each of one or more data acquisition modules via power line communication and each of one or more inverter measuring modules, preferably via power line communication;
storing, analyzing and autonomously sending power performance data and/or maintenance notice based on at least a power performance pattern for requesting a maintenance action to at least one external power performance monitoring unit via an external network. 


