
The solar canopy support system has at least two beam support columns. Each beam support column has a first end connected to a ground surface and extends substantially vertically along a longitudinal axis from the first end to a second end. There is also a “C”-channel support beam connected at the second end of each beam support column. The “C”-channel support beam includes a longitudinal axis within about 0 degrees to about 30 degrees of perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each beam support column. There are also two or more “C”-channels. Each “C”-channel has a first end connected to an upper portion of one “C”-channel support beam and has a second end connected to an upper portion of another “C”-channel support beam. Each “C”-channel includes a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each “C”-channel support beam; at least one solar power array connected on an upper portion of at least two “C”-channels.



1. A solar canopy support system comprising:
(a) at least two substantially horizontally disposed “C”-channel support beams for supporting at least two “C”-channels, and
(b) at least two “C”-channels for supporting at least one solar power array and fixedly attached to the at least two “C”-channel support beams, each “C”-channel having a first end disposed at an upper portion of one “C”-channel support beam and having a second end disposed at an upper portion of another “C”-channel support beam, each “C”-channel comprising a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each “C”-channel support beam.



2. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each “C”-channel is longitudinally oriented opposite to the longitudinally orientation of each adjacent “C”-channel.


3. A solar canopy support system comprising:
(a) at least two beam support columns, each beam support column having a first end connected to a ground surface and extending substantially vertically along a longitudinal axis from the first end to a second end;
(b) a “C”-channel support beam disposed at the second end of each beam support column, the “C”-channel support beam comprising a longitudinal axis within about 0 degrees to about 30 degrees of perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each beam support column;
(c) at least two “C”-channels, each “C”-channel having a first end disposed at an upper portion of one “C”-channel support beam and having a second end disposed at an upper portion of another “C”-channel support beam, each “C”-channel comprising a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each “C”-channel support beam;
(d) at least one solar power array disposed on an upper portion of the at least two “C”-channels.



4. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each beam support column is permanently set in a reinforced concrete bollard disposed in the ground.


5. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each beam support column is removably attached to a reinforced concrete bollard disposed in the ground.


6. The solar canopy support system of claim 3, further comprising a flange disposed at the first end of each beam support column for removably attaching the first end of each beam support column to the reinforced concrete bollard.


7. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, Wherein the “C”-channel support beam is removably attached at the second end of each beam support column.


8. The solar canopy support system of claim 5, further comprising a flange disposed substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the beam support column at the second end of each beam support column for removably attaching the second end of the beam support column to the “C”-channel support beams.


9. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each “C”-channel support beam is disposed substantially parallel to one another.


10. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each solar power array is disposed on an upper portion of at least two “C”-channels.


11. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein a mid-portion of each “C”-channel support beam is disposed substantially at the second end of each beam support column.


12. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, wherein each “C”-channel is disposed in a reverse orientation to each adjacent “C”-channel.


13. The solar canopy support system of claim 10, wherein each solar power array is disposed on an upper portion of two “C”-channels and wherein an upper edge portion of the upper portion of each “C”-channel is facing inward toward a space between the two “C”-channels.


14. The solar canopy support system of claim 1, further comprising at least two “C”-channel attachment flanges disposed on an upper portion of each “C”-channel support beam, the “C”-channel attachment flanges having a longitudinal axis disposed substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the see channel support beam, for attaching the “C”-channels.


15. The solar canopy support system of claim 12, wherein each “C”-channel is removably attached to “C”-channel attachment flanges integral with the “C”-channel support beams.


16. A method of mounting a solar canopy comprising:
(a) affixing at least two beam support columns to a ground surface, each beam support column having a first end connected to the ground surface and extending substantially vertically along a longitudinal axis from the first end to a second end;
(b) affixing a “C”-channel support beam to the second end of each beam support column, the “C”-channel support beam comprising a longitudinal axis within about 0 degrees to about 30 degrees of perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each beam support column;
(c) affixing at least two “C”-channels to the at least two “C”-channel support beams, each “C”-channel having a first end disposed at an upper portion of one “C”-channel support beam and having a second end disposed at an upper portion of another “C”-channel support beam, each “C”-channel comprising a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each “C”-channel support beam;
(d) affixing at least one solar power array to an upper portion of the at least two “C”-channels.



17. The method of claim 16, wherein each beam support column is removably attached to a reinforced concrete bollard disposed in the ground.


18. The method of claim 16, wherein the “C”-channel support beam is removably attached at the second end of each beam support column.


19. The method of claim 16, wherein each “C”-channel support beam is disposed substantially parallel to one another.


20. The method of claim 16, wherein each solar power array is disposed on an upper portion of at least two “C”-channels.


21. The solar canopy support system of claim 20, wherein each “C”-channel is disposed in a reverse orientation to each adjacent “C”-channel.


22. The solar canopy support system of claim 16, wherein each solar power array is disposed on an upper portion of two “C”-channels and wherein an upper edge portion of the upper portion of each “C”-channel is facing inward toward a space between the two “C”-channels. 

