
An assembly which is lightweight includes an interconnected array of PV modules, where each PV modules is defined in part by a module outer perimeter portion. This array is defined in part by an outer perimeter portion including an upper edge portion, side edge portions, and a lower edge portion. The array is secured to a sloped roof along at least one of the upper or lower edge portion of the array. The assembly further includes interlocking features along the module outer perimeter portion which distribute uplift forces to adjacent PV modules. Additionally included is at least one wind deflector located along the lower edge of the array and non-penetrating base feet disposed on the sloped roof supporting at least a portion of the array.



1. An assembly comprising:
an interconnected array of photovoltaic (PV) modules, each of the PV modules defined in part by a module outer perimeter portion, the interconnected array defined in part by an outer perimeter portion including an upper edge portion, side edge portions, and a lower edge portion, the interconnected array configured to be secured to a sloped roof along at least one of the upper or lower edge portion of the interconnected array;
interlocking features along the module outer perimeter portion which distribute uplift forces to adjacent PV modules;
at least one wind deflector located along the lower edge portion of the interconnected array; and
one or more non-penetrating base feet configured to be disposed on the sloped roof, the one or more base feet supporting at least a portion of the interconnected array of PV modules.



2. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein wind uplift forces on the interconnected array are resisted through at least one of distribution of forces within the interconnected array, pressure equalization treatment, or aerodynamic treatment of the interconnected array.


3. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the interlocking features are between adjacent PV modules which planarize adjacent module edge portions, the interlocking features allowing for a single PV module to be removed without removal of an adjacent PV module.


4. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the wind deflector has a gap between the wind deflector and the lower edge allowing for air flow between the interconnected array and the roof.


5. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the wind deflector is a porous wind deflector allowing convective air flow between the interconnected array and the roof and deflects wind gusts above the interconnected array.


6. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the interconnected array, wind deflector, and the base feet are collectively lightweight such that an average load on the roof does not exceed about 10 lb/sq feet.


7. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the interconnected array is configured to be secured to the sloped roof with penetrating members.


8. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the interconnected array includes at least a number of the PV modules having a gap between adjacent PV modules.


9. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the base feet are non-ballasted base feet.


10. The assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising penetrating members coupled with the sloped roof and the interconnected array, the penetrating members disposed within a footprint of the interconnected array, along the outer perimeter portion of the interconnected array, or combinations thereof.


11. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the sloped roof has a slope greater than 1-in-12.


12. The assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least one wind deflector located along at least one of the upper edge portion or the side edge portions.


13. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more base feet are self-leveling feet.


14. The assembly as recited in claim 13, wherein the one or more base feet include elastomeric material.


15. The assembly as recited in claim 13, wherein the one or more base feet are spring feet.


16. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein a first side of a first PV module has a recessed attachment feature, a second side of a second PV module has a projection attachment feature, and the projection attachment feature is received within the recessed attachment feature.


17. The assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising adhesive disposed between the base feet and a roof surface.


18. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more base feet are defined in part by an upper portion and a lower portion, and a coupler extends from the upper portion.


19. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein a first PV module is rotatably lockable with a second PV module.


20. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein a first PV module is slidably unlockable with a second PV module.


21. The assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising one or more penetrating members attached to the roof and forming a roof attachment location, and at least one flexible tie down connecting the one or more penetrating members with the interconnected array at an array attachment location, where the roof attachment location can be offset from the array attachment location.


22. An assembly comprising:
an interconnected array of photovoltaic (PV) modules, each of the PV modules defined in part by a module outer perimeter portion, the interconnected array defined in part by an outer perimeter portion including an upper edge portion and a lower edge portion, interlocking features along the module outer perimeter portion, the interconnected array configured to be coupled with a sloped roof;
one or more penetrating members configured to be coupled with the sloped roof and forming a roof attachment location;
at least one flexible tie down connecting the one or more penetrating members with the interconnected array at an array attachment location, where the roof attachment location can be offset from the array attachment location; and
one or more base feet disposed on the roof, the one or more base feet supporting at least a portion of the interconnected array of PV modules.



23. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein the one or more penetrating members are coupled with a rafter under a surface of the sloped roof.


24. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein the one or more penetrating members are offset from the module outer perimeter portion.


25. The assembly as recited in claim 22, further comprising a tie down tightening member.


26. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein a first PV module of the interconnected array is rotatably lockable with a second PV module of the interconnected array.


27. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein a first PV module of the interconnected array is slidably unlockable with a second PV module of the interconnected array.


28. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein the interlocking features allow for a single PV module to be removed without removal of an adjacent PV module.


29. A method comprising:
mounting two or more photovoltaic (PV) modules on a sloped roof with minimally- penetrating roof mounting structure;
interconnecting the two or more PV modules into an array of PV modules;
securing at least a portion of an upper edge portion of the array with the sloped roof;
coupling at least one wind deflector with at least a portion of a lower edge portion of the array; and
resisting wind uplift forces on the array through distribution of forces within the array, pressure equalization treatment, and aerodynamic treatment of the array.



30. The method as recited in claim 29, further comprising removing at least one individual PV module from an array of interconnected PV modules without removing surrounding PV modules.


31. The method as recited in claim 30, wherein removing the at least one individual PV module includes sliding a first PV module relative to a second PV module.


32. The method as recited in claim 29, wherein interconnecting the PV modules includes inserting a projection attachment feature of a first PV module into a recessed attachment feature of a second PV module, rotating the first PV module relative to the second PV module.


33. The method as recited in claim 29, further comprising interlocking a first PV module of the array with a second PV module of the array.


34. The method as recited in claim 29, further comprising disposing adhesive between the roof mounting structure and a surface of the sloped roof.


35. The method as recited in claim 29, further comprising securing a portion of the array to the sloped roof with a flexible tie down cable, including securing the tie down cable with the array and a penetrating member coupled with the roof top deck.


36. The method as recited in claim 29, wherein mounting the PV modules includes disposing the PV modules in a horizontal row of PV modules, and disposing an interlock between adjacent PV modules.


37. The method as recited in claim 36, further comprising removing the interlock and sliding a first PV module relative to the adjacent PV module.


38. An assembly comprising:
an interconnected array of photovoltaic (PV) modules, each of the PV modules defined in part by a module outer perimeter portion and having a gap between adjacent PV modules, the interconnected array defined in part by an outer perimeter portion including an upper edge portion and a lower edge portion, the interconnected array secured to a sloped roof along at least a portion of the upper edge portion of the interconnected array;
interlocking features along the module outer perimeter portion between adjacent PV modules;
at least one wind deflector located along the lower edge portion of the interconnected array; and
one or more non-penetrating base feet configured to be disposed on the sloped roof, the one or more base feet supporting at least a portion of the interconnected array of PV modules.


