
A photovoltaic framed module array apparatus for mounting a first framed photovoltaic (PV) module and a second framed PV module is provided. The photovoltaic framed module array apparatus comprises a first rail. The first rail includes an insert slot for accommodating an insert edge of the first framed PV module, and a capture slot for accommodating a capture edge of the second framed PV module. The capture slot is positioned substantively parallel to the insert slot.



1. A photovoltaic framed module array apparatus comprising:
a first framed photovoltaic (PV) module;
a second framed PV module; and
a first rail comprising
an insert slot for accommodating an insert edge of the first framed PV module, and
a capture slot for accommodating a capture edge of the second framed PV module, the capture slot positioned substantively parallel to the insert slot.




2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a clamp slot for accommodating a clamp to secure the capture edge of the second framed PV module in the capture slot.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the insert slot is configured to restrict the movement of the insert edge in a vertically upwards direction and a vertically downwards direction.


4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the insert slot is configured in a “C” shape to receive the insert edge.


5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the capture slot is configured to restrict the movement of the capture edge in a vertically downwards direction.


6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the capture slot is configured to allow the movement of the capture edge in a vertically upwards direction.


7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the capture slot comprises a horizontal projection out of the first rail to provide a resting platform for the capture edge.


8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the clamp is configured to releasably secure the capture edge in the capture slot to restrict the movement of the capture edge in a vertically upwards direction.


9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the insert slot and the capture slot are configured to accommodate the first framed PV module and the second framed PV module to provide a substantially continuous surface within the apparatus.


10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mounting interface for providing a rigid interface with a base support.


11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the mounting interface comprises a bolt and a bracket.


12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the mounting interface comprises a base roof attachment and a bolt.


13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second framed PV module adjacent to the first framed PV module along the first rail, wherein
the first framed PV module comprises a first electric wiring and a first electric jack, and
the second framed PV module comprises a second electric wiring and a second electric jack,
and wherein the first electric jack is configured to interface with the second electric jack to electrically couple the first electric wiring with the second electric wiring.



14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first electric jack and the second electric jack are configured to be mechanically coupled by insertion of the second electric jack into the first electric jack.


15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first electric wiring and the second electric wiring includes a ground wiring.


16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein a photovoltaic module assembly incorporating the apparatus does not require an installation of a separate physical ground wire.


17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second rail comprising a capture slot for accommodating a capture edge of the first framed PV module (110).


18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a third rail comprising an insert slot for accommodating an insert edge of the second framed PV module.


19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein n number of PV modules are accommodated by 2n−1 rails, at least one of the 2n−1 rails being similar to the first rail, wherein n is a natural number greater than 1.


20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rail has an asymmetrical shape.


21. A method for assembling a photovoltaic framed module array, the method comprising:
inserting an insert edge of a first framed photovoltaic (PV) module into an insert slot of a first rail;
placing a capture edge of the first framed PV module into a capture slot of a second rail; and
securing the first framed PV module to the second rail,
wherein the first framed PV module is rigidly secured between the first rail and the second rail.



22. The method of claim 21, wherein securing the first framed PV module comprises clamping the framed PV module in the second rail.


23. The method of claim 21 further comprising attaching the first rail rigidly with a base surface through a mounting interface.


24. The method of claim 21, further comprising
inserting an insert edge of a second framed photovoltaic (PV) module into the insert slot of the first rail;
placing a capture edge of the second framed PV module into the capture slot of the second rail; and
coupling a first electric jack of the first framed module to a second electric jack of the second framed module,
wherein the first framed PV module is rigidly secured between the first rail and the second rail.


