
A solar energy assembly for collecting and converting solar energy. It comprises a plurality of solar energy converters 36 and an equivalent number of solar concentrator lenses 39, each lens being associated with one energy converter 36 and being adapted to concentrate light onto that energy converter. The lenses may be separate from each other and may be mounted and replaced independently of the others. One or more panel 20 may be mounted on a support frame 21,22, each panel having a plurality of solar energy converters and a lens array adapted to focus light on to the solar energy converters. The lens array may have a lens mounting system 37,38,66,58 adapted to hold it the desired focal distance from the solar energy converters.



1. A solar energy assembly for collecting and converting solar energy comprising a plurality of solar energy converters and an equivalent number of solar concentrator lenses, each lens being associated with one energy converter and being adapted to concentrate light onto that energy converter.


2. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lenses are separate from each other and may be mounted and replaced independently of the others.


3. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1 in which a lens mounting system is provided to mount the lenses the correct focal distance above the energy converters.


4. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solar energy converters are provided on a panel and the lenses are mounted above that panel.


5. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 4 comprising: one or more panel mounted on a support frame, each panel having a plurality of solar energy converters; a lens array adapted to focus light on to the solar energy converters; and a lens mounting system adapted to hold the lens array the desired focal distance from the solar energy converters.


6. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein the support frame is pivotally connected to a mounting so that the solar energy converters and associated lens array may track the movement of the sun.


7. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 6 wherein a there is provided a tracking assembly to move the support frame relative to the mounting, the tracking assembly causing movement about two generally perpendicular axes of rotation and the tracking assembly comprised a crank, a first linear actuator connected to the mounting and the crank and a second linear actuator connected to the crank and the support frame, whereby linear extension of one or both actuators causes pivoting movement of the panel relative to the mounting assembly.


8. (canceled)


9. (canceled)


10. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein a plurality of panels are attached side by side to form a composite panel.


11. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein vents are provided to allow air to pass through or between the panel and the lens array.


12. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 11, wherein the vents are provided by one or more of spaces between adjacent panels, openings in the lens array, and/or openings in the mounting system.


13. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein a cleaning system is provided to clean the solar energy converters and/or lenses.


14. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 13, wherein the cleaning system is incorporated in a mounting system for the lenses.


15. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 14, wherein the mounting system includes legs that extend between the panels and the lens array, and the cleaning system includes one or more spray nozzle on said legs.


16. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 15, wherein each leg has multiple nozzles to direct fluid upward onto the lens array and downwards onto the panel.


17. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 13, wherein the cleaning system is also adapted to direct fluid onto an external face of the lens array.


18. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein there is further provided a lens mounting system adapted to hold an array comprising the lenses the desired focal distance from the solar energy converters.


19. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 18 wherein the mounting system comprising a plurality of legs that connect to the panels and to the lens array.


20. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 19, wherein the lenses are polygonal and tessellate, and the legs are adapted to connect to the corners of adjacent lenses.


21. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 20, wherein the lenses are generally rectangular and each leg is adapted to support four corners one from each of four adjacent lenses.


22. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 19, wherein the upper end of each leg is provided with releasable interlocking means that cooperate with formations on the lenses to hold the lenses in place.


23. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 22, wherein the upper end of each leg has 4 recesses; the corner of each lens has a tab that locates into a recess; and a cap is attached to the upper end of the leg to prevent removal of the tabs from the recesses.


24. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein side walls are provided around the periphery of the panel, or composite panel, between the panel or composite panel and the lens array.


25. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 24, wherein the side walls connect to legs supporting the lens array adjacent the edge of the panel.


26. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein each panel comprises a base sheet formed from a material of high thermal conductivity and a carrier strip having photovoltaic cells spaced therealong, the carrier strip being bonded to the base sheet which provides both mechanical support and a heat sink for the photovoltaic cells.


27. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 26, wherein a plurality of strips is provided across each base sheet.


28. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 27, wherein the strips are substantially parallel to each other and preferably arranged horizontally in use.


29. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 26, wherein the base sheet is formed from metal.


30. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solar energy converters are photovoltaic cells.


31. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lenses are Fresnel lenses.


32. A solar energy assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the desired focal distance between a lens and the associated solar energy converter is within the range of 18 to 22 cm.


33. A solar energy assembly for collecting and converting solar energy, comprising: a mounting; a support frame mounted on the mounting; a solar panel formed from a plurality of discrete sub-panels, attached side by side to the support frame each sub-panel having a plurality of solar energy converters; a lens array adapted to focus light on to the solar energy converters; and a lens mounting system adapted to hold the lens array the desired focal distance from the solar energy converters. 

