
To provide an installation method for installing a photovoltaic module comprising a photovoltaic module, a support structure for supporting the photovoltaic module mounted thereon, a fixing member for fixing the photovoltaic module to the support structure; and a damper placed between a rear surface of the photovoltaic module and a surface of the support structure when the photovoltaic module is fixed to the support structure, using the fixing member.



1. An installation structure for installing a photovoltaic module comprises:
a photovoltaic panel;
a support structure for supporting the photovoltaic module mounted thereon;
a fixing member for fixing the photovoltaic module to the support structure; and
a damper placed between a rear surface of the photovoltaic module and a surface of the support structure when the photovoltaic module is fixed to the support structure, using the fixing member.



2. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the damper is positioned point symmetrical relative to a center of gravity of the photovoltaic module.


3. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the damper is adhered on the rear surface of the photovoltaic module and the surface of the support structure.


4. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 2, wherein the damper is adhered on the rear surface of the photovoltaic module and the surface of the support structure.


5. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the damper is removable from at least one of the photovoltaic module and the support structure.


6. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 2, wherein the damper is removable from at least one of the photovoltaic module and the support structure.


7. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 3, wherein the damper is removable from at least one of the photovoltaic module and the support structure.


8. The installation method for installing a photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the support structure is arranged along a separating groove formed on the photovoltaic module.


9. A photovoltaic module comprising:
a photovoltaic panel;
a fixing member for fixing the photovoltaic module; and
a damper placed in a space that is caused between a rear surface of the photovoltaic module and a surface of a support structure for supporting the photovoltaic module mounted thereon when the fixing member is fixed to the support structure.



10. A mounting support structure for a photovoltaic module for carrying a photovoltaic module mounted thereon, the mounting support structure having a damper placed in a space that is caused between a rear surface of the photovoltaic module and the mounting support structure when a fixing member provided to the photovoltaic module is fixed. 

