
A high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller for photovoltaic (PV) systems having a high voltage PV array, a battery bank and a high voltage DC load comprises a DC to DC converter electrically connectable to the high voltage PV array, the battery bank, and the high voltage DC load. The converter receives DC input from the PV array and operates in a first direction to step-down the voltage of the DC input to obtain a stepped-down DC output of appropriate voltage to charge the battery bank. The converter receives DC input from the battery bank and operates in a second direction to step-up the voltage of the DC input received from the battery bank to obtain a stepped-up DC output of appropriate voltage for the high voltage DC load.



1. A high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller for photovoltaic systems having a high voltage photovoltaic array, a battery bank and a high voltage DC load, comprising
a bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter electrically connectable to the high voltage photovoltaic array, the battery bank, and the high voltage DC load of the photovoltaic system, said converter receiving DC input from the high voltage photovoltaic array and operating in a first direction to step-down the voltage of the DC input received from the photovoltaic array to obtain a stepped-down DC output of appropriate voltage to be delivered from said converter to the battery bank to charge the battery bank, said converter receiving DC input from the battery bank and operating in a second direction to step-up the voltage of the DC input received from the battery bank to obtain a stepped-up DC output of appropriate voltage to be delivered from said converter to the high voltage DC load, and said converter simultaneously performing maximum power point tracking of the high voltage photovoltaic array.



2. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 1 wherein said converter includes a full-bridge bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


3. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 1 wherein said converter includes a dual active full-bridge bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


4. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 1 wherein said converter includes a parallel resonant bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


5. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 1 wherein said converter includes a first bridge, a second bridge, and a switch located along the electrical path between the photovoltaic array and the battery bank, said switch preventing current from flowing from the battery bank back to the photovoltaic array when the voltage of the DC input from the photovoltaic array to said converter is less than the voltage of the DC output from said converter to the battery bank.


6. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 5 wherein said switch is located along the electrical path to be rated for the input current of the DC input from the photovoltaic array.


7. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 5 wherein said switch is located along the electrical path to be rated for the output current of the DC output from said converter to the battery bank.


8. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 5 wherein said first bridge and said second bridge are variably arrangeable within said DC to DC converter.


9. A high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller for grid-connected photovoltaic systems having a high voltage photovoltaic array, a battery bank, and a grid-connected inverter for transforming DC electricity produced by the photovoltaic array into AC electricity appropriate for being supplied to a public utility grid, comprising
a bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter electrically connectable to the high voltage photovoltaic array, the battery bank, and the inverter of the photovoltaic system, said converter receiving DC input from the high voltage photovoltaic array and operating in a first direction to step-down the voltage of the DC input received from the photovoltaic array to obtain a stepped-down DC output of appropriate voltage to be delivered from said converter to the battery bank to charge the battery bank, said converter receiving DC input from the battery bank and operating in a second direction to step-up the voltage of the DC input received from the battery bank to obtain a stepped-up DC output of appropriate voltage to be delivered from said converter to the grid-connected inverter, and said converter simultaneously performing maximum power point tracking of the high voltage photovoltaic array.



10. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 9 wherein said converter includes a full-bridge bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


11. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 9 wherein said converter includes a dual active full-bridge bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


12. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 9 wherein said converter includes a parallel resonant bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter configuration.


13. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 9 wherein said converter includes a first bridge, a second bridge, and a switch located along the electrical path between the photovoltaic array and the battery bank, said switch preventing current from flowing from the battery bank back to the photovoltaic array when the voltage of the DC input from the photovoltaic array to said converter is less than the voltage of the DC output from said converter to the battery bank.


14. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 13 wherein said switch is located along the electrical path to be rated for the input current of the DC input from the photovoltaic array.


15. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 13 wherein said switch is located along the electrical path to be rated for the output current of the DC output from said converter to the battery bank.


16. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 13 wherein said first bridge and said second bridge are variably arrangeable within said DC to DC converter.


17. A high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller for grid-connected photovoltaic systems having a high voltage photovoltaic array, a battery bank and a grid-connected inverter for transforming DC electricity produced by the photovoltaic array into AC electricity appropriate for being supplied to a public utility grid and to an AC load, comprising
a bidirectional isolated DC to DC converter electrically connectable to the high voltage photovoltaic array, the battery bank, and the inverter of the photovoltaic system, said converter receiving DC input from the high voltage photovoltaic array and operating in a first direction to step-down the voltage of the DC input received from the photovoltaic array to obtain a stepped-down DC output of appropriate voltage to charge the battery bank, said converter delivering the stepped-down DC output to the battery bank to charge the battery bank, said converter receiving DC input from the battery bank and operating in a second direction to step-up the voltage of the DC input received from the battery bank to obtain a stepped-up DC output of appropriate voltage to be delivered from said converter to the grid-connected inverter, said converter delivering the stepped-up DC output to the grid-connected inverter for transformation by the inverter into AC electricity appropriate for being supplied to the public utility grid and the AC load, said converter operating in a back-up mode when the public utility grid is down whereby said converter supplies the stepped-up DC output from the battery bank to the inverter to power the AC load when the AC load requires more power than is available from the photovoltaic array and said converter supplies the stepped-down DC output from the photovoltaic array to charge the battery, if needed, when the AC load requires less power than is available from the photovoltaic array, said converter simultaneously performing maximum power point tracking of the high voltage photovoltaic array.



18. The high voltage maximum power point tracking bidirectional charge controller recited in claim 17 wherein said converter is capable of receiving input from a high voltage photovoltaic array of up to 600V.


19. A method of charge control for grid-connected photovoltaic systems having a high voltage photovoltaic array, a battery bank and a grid-connected inverter, comprising the steps of
delivering DC electricity produced by the high voltage photovoltaic array as DC input to a bidirectional DC to DC converter of a maximum power point tracking charge controller;
stepping-down the voltage of the DC input in a first direction through the DC to DC converter to obtain a stepped-down DC voltage;
delivering the stepped-down DC voltage from the maximum power point tracking charge controller to the battery bank;
delivering DC electricity from the battery bank as DC input to the DC to DC converter;
stepping-up the voltage of the DC voltage in the battery bank in a second direction through a DC to DC converter to obtain a stepped-up DC voltage; and
delivering the stepped-up DC voltage from the maximum power point tracking charge controller to the grid-connected inverter. 


