
The present invention is premised upon a photovoltaic device suitable for directly mounting on a structure. The device includes an active portion including a photovoltaic cell assembly having a top surface portion that allows transmission of light energy to a photoactive portion of the photovoltaic device for conversion into electrical energy and a bottom surface having a bottom bonding zone; and an inactive portion immediately adjacent to and connected to the active portion, the inactive portion having a region for receiving a fastener to connect the device to the structure and having on a top surface, a top bonding zone; wherein one of the top and bottom bonding zones comprises a first bonding element and the other comprises a second bonding element, the second bonding element designed to interact with the first bonding element on a vertically overlapped adjacent photovoltaic device to bond the device to such adjacent device or to the structure.



1. A photovoltaic device suitable for directly mounting on a structure comprising:
an active portion including a photovoltaic cell assembly having a top surface portion that allows transmission of light energy to a photoactive portion of the photovoltaic device for conversion into electrical energy and a bottom surface having a bottom bonding zone; and
an inactive portion immediately adjacent to and connected to the active portion, the inactive portion having a region for receiving a fastener to connect the device to the structure and having on a top surface, a top bonding zone;
wherein one of the top and bottom bonding zones comprises a first bonding element and the other comprises a second bonding element, the second bonding element designed to interact with the first bonding element on a vertically overlapped adjacent photovoltaic device to bond the device to such adjacent device or to the structure.



2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first bonding element comprises an adhesive creating an adhesive bonding element and the second bonding element includes a compatible material for accepting at least a portion of the first bonding element.


3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first bonding element is coextensive with or disposed with 25 mm of a peripheral edge of the active portion on the bottom surface of the active portion.


4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the second bonding element includes at least one recessed pocket for accepting at least a portion of the first bonding element.


5. The device according to claim 4, wherein the at least one recessed pocket has a pocket depth of at least 1.0 mm.


6. The device according to claim 2, wherein the first bonding element further comprises a removable release liner disposed over an outer surface of the adhesive, which is removed to enable the first and second bonding elements or the first bonding element and the structure to form a bond.


7. The device according to claim 6, wherein the removable release liner extends laterally from a periphery of the photovoltaic device by at least 10 mm creating a laterally extended portion, and is folded back upon itself at least in one of the bonding zones.


8. The device according to claim 6, wherein the removable release liner covers a portion of the top surface portion of the active portion and is opaque or light limiting to prevent the cell from generating electricity until it is removed.


9. The device according to claim 6, wherein the removable release liner includes a print installation instruction for easy access for an installer.


10. The device according to claim 6, wherein the removable release liner includes an outer surface with a slip protection.


11. The device according to according to claim 1, wherein the bonding element comprises a pressure sensitive adhesive that maintains a minimum peel force of 3 PLI (pounds per linear inch), more preferably 5 PLI, and most preferred 10 PLI per ASTM D 903-98 at temperatures between −40° C. and 85° C. and have an elongation of >500%, more preferably >1000% per ASTM 0 412-06.


12. The device according to according to claim 1, wherein a portion of the top bonding zone, the bottom bonding zone, or both include a patterned surface that increases the surface area relative to a flat surface by more than 5%.


13. The device according to claim 4, wherein the first and second bonding elements comprises a hook and loop fastener assembly with an assembly thickness, wherein the hook and loop fastener assembly thickness is at least 90% disposed within the at least one recessed pocket.


14. The device according to according to claim 1, wherein the first bonding element, the second bonding element, or both are configured as either as a continuous element or a non-continuous element separated by a space.


15. The device according to according to claim 1, wherein the device has an increased thickness of the inactive portion at or near the edge opposite from the action portion.


16. A method of assembling at least two photovoltaic devices on a structure, comprising the steps of:
a. providing the at least two photovoltaic devices, the devices including:
a removable release liner,
an active portion including a photovoltaic cell assembly having a top surface portion that allows transmission of light energy to the photoactive portion for conversion into electrical energy and a bottom surface having a bottom bonding zone; and
an inactive portion immediately adjacent to and connected to the active portion, the inactive portion having a region for receiving a fastener to connect the device to the structure and having on a top surface a top bonding zone;

b. providing a plurality of mechanical fasteners;
c. placing the one of the at least two photovoltaic devices on the structure;
d. securing the placed photovoltaic device to the structure with at least two of the plurality of mechanical fasteners;
e. placing the second of the at least two photovoltaic devices partially on the structure and partially on top of the photovoltaic device of step c;
f. securing the second placed photovoltaic device to the structure with at least two of the plurality of mechanical fasteners; and
g. pressing down on a portion of the top surface portion of the second placed photovoltaic device, completing the assembling of the at least two photovoltaic devices on the structure.



17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the at least two photovoltaic devices include a removable release liner, wherein the release liner covers the at least one of the bonding zones, extends laterally from a periphery of the photovoltaic device by at least 10 mm creating a laterally extended portion, and is folded back upon itself at least in one of the bonding zones.


18. The method according to claim 17, including the steps of removing the removable release liner by pulling on the laterally extended portion prior to the pressing down step.


19. The method according to claim 16, wherein the removable release liner covers a portion of the top surface portion of the active portion and is not transparent or is light limiting to prevent the cell from generating electricity until it is removed.


20. The method according to claim 16, wherein the removable release liner includes a print installation instruction for easy access for an installer.


21. The method according to claim 16, wherein the removable release liner includes an outer surface with a slip protection. 

