
A partially non-rigid solar capture mounting system which reduces the risk of damage due to wind is disclosed. The solar capture mounting system includes at least one pole, a horizontal beam mounted to the pole, and at least one backing plate hanging from the horizontal beam via a pivotal connection. Examples of pivotal connection are bushings with ball bearings, hinges, steel rings and spring clips. Each of the backing plates supports at least one solar cell. Wind pressure against a backing plate pivots the backing plate about the horizontal beam such that the system experiences reduced stress and reduced risk of damage due to wind and wind carried objects.



1. Solar capture mounting system, comprising:
at least one pole;
a horizontal beam mounted to the pole; and
at least one backing plate hanging from the horizontal beam such that wind pressure pivots the backing plate about the horizontal beam, the backing plate supporting at least one solar cell.



2. The solar capture mounting system of claim 1, wherein the pivoting backing plate reduces wind resistance of the solar capture mounting system.


3. The solar capture mounting system of claim 2, wherein the pivoting backing plate reduces the probability of damage resulting from wind.


4. The solar capture mounting system of claim 1, the at least one pole and the horizontal beam providing support for electrical connectivity to the at least one solar cell.


5. The solar capture mounting system of claim 1, further comprising:
at least one additional horizontal beam mounted to the pole; and
at least one additional backing plate hanging from the at least one additional horizontal beam such that wind pressure pivots the additional backing plate about the at least one additional horizontal beam, the additional backing plate supporting at least one additional solar cell.



6. The solar capture mounting system of claim 5, the at least one horizontal beam comprising a rod.


7. The solar capture mounting system of claim 5, the at least one horizontal beam comprising a taut cable.


8. The solar capture mounting system of claim 1, the at least one pole comprising two poles spaced apart, wherein the horizontal beam is mounted to each of the two poles.


9. The solar capture mounting system of claim 8, the at least one horizontal beam comprising a taut cable.


10. A photovoltaic mounting system, comprising:
a pole mounted vertically;
a substantially rigid first horizontal beam mounted to the pole; and
at least one backing plate hanging from the horizontal beam and pivoted to move in an arc substantially around the beam;
wherein the backing plate supports at least one solar cell oriented in an energy gathering direction.



11. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, further comprising:
an additional substantially rigid horizontal beam mounted to the pole and positioned below the bottom of the at least one backing plate and substantially parallel to the first horizontal beam; and
at least one additional backing plate hanging from the additional horizontal beam and pivoted to move in an arc substantially around the additional horizontal beam;
wherein the additional backing plate supports at least one solar cell oriented in an energy gathering direction.



12. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the first horizontal beam comprising an “I” beam formed of carbon fiber.


13. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the first horizontal beam comprising a tube.


14. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the first pole being mounted in the ground.


15. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the at least one backing plate being pivotally supported by at least two stainless steel rings.


16. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the at least one backing plate being pivotally supported by at least two hinges.


17. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the length of the pole and the number and length of the horizontal beams being selected based upon the number of solar cells to be supported.


18. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the backing plate comprising a plastic sheet with at least two mounting holes along the top edge.


19. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the backing plate comprising a weight positioned at the back side and away from the plane of the backing plate such that the at least one solar cell is angled above the horizon.


20. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, the backing plate comprising a spring mechanism to position the plate at an angle relative to vertical.


21. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, wherein the at least one backing plate moves when blown by the wind to reduce the area of the backing plate presented towards the wind.


22. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 10, wherein the pole is mechanically driven to rotate to align the at least one solar cell to the sun.


23. A photovoltaic mounting system, comprising:
a first pole mounted substantially vertical;
a second pole mounted substantially vertical and spaced apart from the first pole;
a first substantially rigid horizontal cross beam mounted from the first pole to the second pole; and
at least one backing plate hanging from the horizontal beam and pivoted to move in an arc substantially around the beam;
wherein the backing plate supports at least one solar cell oriented in an energy gathering direction.



24. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 23, further comprising:
at least one horizontal support positioned below the bottom of the at least one backing plate and supported by the first and second poles;
at least one additional backing plate hanging from the horizontal support and pivoted to move in an arc substantially around the horizontal support;
wherein the additional backing plate supports at least one solar cell oriented in the energy gathering direction.



25. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 24, the at least one horizontal support comprising a rod.


26. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 24, the at least one horizontal support comprising a taut cable.


27. The photovoltaic mounting system of claim 26, further comprising at least one automatic tensioning system for maintaining tension on the cable.


28. A method for mounting solar cells, comprising:
positioning a first pole substantially vertical;
positioning a second pole apart from the first pole such that a plane defined by formed between the first and second poles is substantially perpendicular to a direction suitable for solar radiation harvesting;
positioning at least one horizontal support beam from the first pole to the second pole;
suspending at least one backing plate from the horizontal support; and
attaching at least one solar cell to each of the at least one backing plate.


