
A mounting assembly is described. The mounting assembly includes: (a) a pipe having a first threaded end and a second threaded end; (b) a base component having a base portion and a threaded connecting portion; (c) a top component having a top portion and a threaded portion, the top component being capable of supporting a photovoltaic panel thereon; and (d) wherein the first threaded end of the pipe and the threaded connecting portion of the base component include threads such that the first threaded end rotatably engages in a first direction with the threaded connecting portion, and the second threaded end of the pipe and the threaded portion of the top component include threads such that the first threaded end rotatably engages in a second direction with the threaded portion of the top component, the first direction is opposite to the second direction, and the first threaded end and the second threaded end are substantially cylindrical.



1. A mounting assembly, comprising:
a pipe having a first threaded end and a second threaded end;
a base component having a base portion and a threaded connecting portion;
a top component having a top portion and a threaded portion, said top component being capable of supporting a photovoltaic panel thereon; and
wherein said first threaded end of said pipe and said threaded connecting portion of said base component include threads such that said first threaded end rotatably engages in a first direction with said threaded connecting portion, and said second threaded end of said pipe and said threaded portion of said top component include threads such that said first threaded end rotatably engages in a second direction with said threaded portion of said top component, said first direction is opposite to said second direction, and said first threaded end and said second threaded end are substantially cylindrical.



2. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said cross-section of said pipe between said first threaded end and said second threaded end has a shape that is at least one selected from a group consisting of circular, triangular, and rectangular.


3. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said pipe is made from a material that includes one member selected from a group consisting of aluminum, steel, fiberglass, plastic, alloy, and treated materials that are galvanized, electrogalvanized, and annealed.


4. The mounting assembly of claim 1, further comprising a rail which is secured upon said frame and is capable of having attached thereto a photovoltaic panel.


5. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said pipe has a diameter that is between about 1.25 inches and about 3.0 inches.


6. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said first threaded end and said second threaded end include threads which extend to a depth that is between about 1 inch and 3 inches.


7. The mounting assembly of claim 6, wherein said first threaded end and said second threaded end include threads which extend to a depth that is between about 1 inch and about 2 inches.


8. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said threaded connecting portion of said base component and said threaded portion of said top portion include threads which extend to a depth that is between about 1 inch and about 3 inches.


9. The mounting assembly of claim 8, wherein said threaded connecting portion of said base component and said threaded portion of said top portion include threads which extend to a depth that is between about 1 inch and about 2 inches.


10. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein a pitch of threads on said first threaded portion and said second threaded portion is value between about 0.03 inches and about 0.11 inches.


11. A method for assembling a mounting assembly, comprising:
immobilizing a base component on a surface, said base component including a base portion and a threaded connecting portion which includes threads;
obtaining a pipe having first threaded end and a second threaded end, each of said first and said second threaded ends include threads;
rotatably engaging threads of said first threaded end with threads of said threaded connecting portion of said bottom component to connect said bottom component and said pipe and forming a bottom subassembly;
rotatably engaging threads of said second threaded end with threads of said threaded portion of said top component to connect said bottom subassembly with said top component and forming said mounting assembly.



12. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, wherein said immobilizing includes securing a bottom part of said base component inside concrete or on a supporting surface.


13. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising adjusting a height of said mounting assembly by rotating said threads of said first threaded end with respect to said threads of said threaded connecting portion.


14. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising adjusting a height of said mounting assembly by rotating said threads of said second threaded end with respect to said threads of said threaded portion.


15. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising leveling a height of said mounting assembly across a radial direction of said mounting assembly by rotating said threads of said first threaded end with respect to said threads of said threaded connecting portion.


16. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising leveling a height of said mounting assembling across a radial direction of said mounting assembly by rotating said threads of said second threaded end with respect to said threads of said threaded portion.


17. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising fastening a frame to said top component using a fastening subassembly.


18. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 16, wherein said fastening subassembly includes at least one member selected from a group consisting of U-shaped bolts, straight bolts, screws, and tabs with mounting holes.


19. The method of assembling a mounting assembly of claim 17, further comprising communicatively coupling a rail designed to secure a photovoltaic panel on said frame.


20. A mounting assembly, comprising:
means for adjusting height of said mounting assembly, said means of adjusting including a first threaded end and a second threaded end;
means for immobilizing said mounting assembling including a threaded connecting portion;
means for supporting a frame installed on said mounting assembly, said means for supporting including a threaded portion; and
wherein said first threaded end and said threaded connecting portion include threads such that said first threaded end rotatably engages in a first direction with said threaded connecting portion, and said second threaded end and said threaded portion include threads such that said first threaded end rotatably engages in a second direction with said threaded portion, and said first direction is opposite to said second direction. 


