
An inverter circuit contains a first and second DC sources for providing a DC voltage, a common step-up converter for boosting the DC voltage, an intermediate circuit capacitor connected between the outputs of the common step-up converter, and an inverter for converting the DC voltage provided by the capacitor into an AC voltage. The common step-up converter contains a series circuit having a first inductance and a first rectifier element and is connected between an output of the first DC source and one side of the intermediate circuit capacitor as well as a series circuit which includes a second inductance and a second rectifier element and is connected between an output of the second DC source and another side of the intermediate circuit capacitor. The common step-up converter further contains a common switching element which is connected between the first and second DC sources.



1. A circuit configuration, comprising:
a DC source having a first DC source and a second DC source each providing a DC voltage;
a step-up converter having outputs, said step-up converter being a common step-up converter for boosting both the DC voltage provided by said first DC source and the DC voltage provided by said second DC source, said common step-up converter containing at least one switching element connected between said first and second DC sources; and
an intermediate circuit capacitor connected between said outputs of said step-up converter.



2. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said common step-up converter contains a series circuit of a first inductance and a first rectifier element which is connected between an output of the first direct-current source and one side of said intermediate circuit capacitor and a series circuit of a second inductance and a second rectifier element which is connected between an output of the second direct-current source and another side of the intermediate circuit capacitor.


3. The circuit configuration according to claim 2, wherein said at least one circuit-breaker is connected between a node formed between said first inductance and said first rectifier element and a node formed between said second inductance and said second rectifier element.


4. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said intermediate circuit capacitor has at least two capacitances connected in series.


5. The circuit configuration according to claim 4, wherein a connection between said at least two capacitances of said intermediate circuit capacitor is connected to a connection between two of said circuit-breakers.


6. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said circuit-breakers are synchronously clocked.


7. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said circuit-breakers are clocked separately.


8. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said switching element is a circuit breaker with a fixed timing frequency.


9. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said switching element is a circuit breaker with a variable timing frequency.


10. The circuit configuration according to claim 2, wherein said first and second inductances of the common step-up converter are configured to be coupled to one another.


11. The circuit configuration according to claim 2, wherein said first and second inductances of the common step-up converter are separate from one another.


12. The circuit configuration according to claim 1, wherein said first and second direct-current sources are two strings or part-strings of a photovoltaic generator.


13. An inverter circuit, comprising:
a circuit configuration, containing:
a DC source having a first DC source and a second DC source each providing a DC voltage;
a step-up converter having outputs, said step-up converter being a common step-up converter for boosting both the DC voltage provided by said first DC source and the DC voltage provided by said second DC source, said common step-up converter containing at least one switching element connected between said first and second DC sources; and
an intermediate circuit capacitor connected between said outputs of said step-up converter; and
an inverter for converting a further DC voltage provided by said intermediate circuit capacitor into an AC voltage.



14. The inverter circuit according to claim 13, wherein:
said intermediate circuit capacitor is formed by at least two capacitances connected in series; and
said inverter is connected to a connection between said at least two capacitances of said intermediate circuit capacitor.



15. The inverter circuit according to claim 13, wherein:
said inverter has input connections; and
said step-up converter is one of at least two step-up converters connected in one of parallel or in series and connected to said input connections of said inverter or to said intermediate circuit capacitor. 


