
Tracking device (1) for a solar element, having a carrier (8) rotatable around an axis, which is rotatable via a drive element (10), and a coupling element (11) fixable on an anchor (2), which has an axial bearing surface (14, 14′) for the carrier (8) and forms a receptacle (16, 16′), into which an anchor (2, 2′, 2″, 2′″′) is insertable and fixable by clamping via fasteners (12, 12′).



1. A tracking device for a solar element, having a carrier rotatable around an axis, which is rotatable via a drive element, and a coupling element fixable on an anchor, which has an axial bearing surface for the carrier and forms a receptacle, into which an anchor is insertable and is fixable by clamping via fasteners.


2. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that the fasteners are adjustable relative to the receptacle of the coupling element.


3. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that the receptacle is implemented as a cavity, into which an upper section of the anchor is insertable.


4. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that the coupling element has a hollow profile, in which the receptacle is formed, on the side facing toward the anchor.


5. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that an opening, in particular a threaded opening, for a fastener, is formed on at least one side wall enclosing the receptacle.


6. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that the coupling element has an upwardly protruding bearing journal, on which the carrier is plugged.


7. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that a horizontal axial bearing surface, on which the rotatable carrier, is implemented on the coupling element.


8. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that a support frame, on which a solar element is fixed, is held on the carrier.


9. The tracking device according to claim 1, characterized in that the coupling element has an axial bearing surface made of plastic.


10. A tracking device for solar elements, having a coupling element fixable on an anchor, which is connected via a plug connection to a carrier, on which a support frame having a solar element is fixed, the carrier having at least two arms for supporting the support frame.


11. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that the arms are situated spread out upward on the carrier.


12. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that the arms have a retainer on the ends for the pivotable mounting of the support frame.


13. The tracking device according to claim 12, characterized in that the retainer has an open receptacle for inserting a counter bearing of the support frame.


14. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that the arms are produced from a metal plate.


15. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that at least one protruding web having openings for engagement using levers is formed on the arms, at least one lever being coupled to the support frame.


16. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that the carrier has a vertical bearing journal, which is mounted so it is rotatable on the coupling element.


17. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that a horizontal axial bearing surface, on which the carrier is supported, is implemented on the coupling element.


18. The tracking device according to claim 10, characterized in that a drive element is provided on the carrier, using which the carrier (8)-is rotatable relative to the coupling element.


19. The tracking device according to claim 18, characterized in that the drive element is implemented as a disc, on which a belt coupled to a drive is situated.

