
A power source device includes a main power source for outputting a direct current voltage with a specific value; a monitoring unit connected to the main power source for comparing the direct current voltage with a reference voltage to monitor whether a malfunction occurs in the main power source; and a monitoring display unit connected to the monitoring unit. The monitoring unit includes a comparison unit for comparing the direct current voltage with the reference voltage, and a monitoring control unit for detecting a signal of the comparison unit and for storing and displaying the direct current voltage on the monitoring display unit when the malfunction occurs in the main power source.



1. A power source device comprising:
a main power source for outputting a direct current voltage with a specific value;
a monitoring unit connected to the main power source for comparing the direct current voltage with a reference voltage to monitor whether a malfunction occurs in the main power source; and
a monitoring display unit connected to the monitoring unit,
wherein said monitoring unit includes a comparison unit for comparing the direct current voltage with the reference voltage, and a monitoring control unit for detecting a signal of the comparison unit, said monitoring control unit being arranged to store the direct current voltage and displays information associated with the direct current voltage on the monitoring display unit when the malfunction occurs in the main power source.



2. The power source device according to claim 1, further comprising a monitoring unit power source connected to the monitoring unit for outputting the reference voltage.


3. The power source device according to claim 1, wherein said monitoring display unit is arranged to be driven by the reference voltage.


4. The power source device according to claim 2, wherein said monitoring unit power source is formed of a battery for outputting the reference voltage.


5. The power source device according to claim 2, wherein said monitoring unit power source is formed of a solar battery for outputting the reference voltage.


6. An image forming apparatus comprising the power source device according to claim 1.


7. The image forming apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said main power source is arranged to supply the direct current voltage to drive the image forming apparatus.


8. An image forming apparatus for forming an image on a recording medium, comprising:
a drive unit for transporting the recording medium;
a control unit for controlling the drive unit;
a main power source for outputting a first voltage to the control unit;
an image forming unit for forming the image on the recording medium;
a reference voltage generation unit for outputting a second voltage as a reference voltage;
a comparison unit for comparing the first voltage with the second voltage;
a monitoring unit for monitoring whether a malfunction occurs in the main power source according to a comparison result of the comparison unit;
a monitoring display unit connected to the monitoring unit;
a storage unit for storing a measurement result when the monitoring unit detects that the malfunction occurs in the main power source; and
a monitoring control unit for displaying the measurement result on the monitoring display unit.



9. The image forming apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said reference voltage generation unit is arranged to supply the reference voltage to the monitoring display unit.


10. The image forming apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said reference voltage generation unit is formed of a battery for outputting the reference voltage.


11. The image forming apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said reference voltage generation unit is formed of a solar battery for outputting the reference voltage. 

