
The present disclosure relates to a solution enabling to lead out from the front of the photovoltaic module poles (+, −) of the electric wiring of the module's circuit by the use of glass applied in photovoltaics, with holes going through (1, 12) through the front (4) and the rear (3), as well as proper connectors (plugs) (8, 13) which enable to mount the wiring (15). Owing to that, it is possible to introduce a facilitated way of connecting modules by using short wires without connectors, which diminishes the losses of power caused by the earlier solution.



1. The photovoltaic module built of silicon wafers which are interconnected in the electric circuit, applied on the wafer of the photovoltaic glass fitted in the casing, wherein in the photovoltaic glass constituting the front of the module there are holes, in which connectors are built-in, with appropriate structure which enables the mounting of the wiring outside the module.


2. The photovoltaic module, in accordance with claim 1, wherein the connectors are in the shape of cylinders perfectly fit to the sizes of the holes, and their inside is shaped in a way which enables to connect modules in photovoltaic systems of any power easily and permanently.


3. The photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the connectors are directly connected to the module's electric circuit.


4. The photovoltaic module according to claim 1, wherein the connectors are made of a material which conducts electric current and the isolating caps which serve to protect the connector against the contact with the external environment.


5. The way of connecting photovoltaic modules in the photovoltaic system, wherein the photovoltaic modules are connected in systems by means of wiring, without the use of connectors, and specially designed junctions enable from two sides to mount the wiring directly to the connectors in the module, while the junction is formed by the casing with the cover taken off during the mounting of the wiring, which, on closing, tightly blocks against the air coming in to the electric elements and protects the elements against the contact with the external environment.


6. The way of connecting the photovoltaic modules in a photovoltaic system according to claim 5, wherein the wire is protected with the choke of the casing, at the end of the wire on two sides there are caps connected to the wires, through the caps there goes an element which serves to fasten the wires directly to the connector in the module shaped in such a way that it enables to obtain a permanent connection facilitating the flow of electric current.

