
A solar panel mounting system that supports field installation of solar panels. The system comprises a carrier for holding a plurality of individual solar panels together as a unit and an attachment structure on the carrier for mounting the carrier to a support structure. The support structure may comprise a plurality of spaced parallel rails. The carrier can be slidably mounted to the spaced parallel rails using the attachment structure provided on the carrier.



1-37. (canceled)


38. A method for mounting solar panels, the method comprising:
installing a plurality of solar panels on a carrier; and
mounting the carrier to a support structure.



39. A method as in claim 38, wherein said mounting comprises:
providing attachment structures on the carriers that permit the carrier to slide along the support structure; and
sliding the carrier relative to the support structure to install the carrier at a desired position on the support structure.



40. A method as in claim 38, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of a parallel rails and the attachment structures of the carrier slidably engages the rails.


41. The method of claim 38, further comprising repeating the installing and mounting steps for a plurality of carriers one after another onto the support structure.


42. The method of claim 41, further comprising pressing the carriers together to electrically connect them.


43. The method of claim 38, wherein the step of installing the solar panels further comprises electrically connecting the plurality of solar panels on the carrier together with electrical connectors provided on the panels and carrier.


44. A solar panel carrier, comprising:
a plurality of recesses for holding individual solar panels on the carrier; and
an attachment structure for mounting the carrier to a support structure.



45. The solar panel carrier of claim 44, further including electrical connectors in each recess for connection with an electrical connector on each solar panel.


46. The solar panel carrier of claim 45, further including electrical wiring interconnecting the electrical connectors in each recess.


47. The solar panel carrier of claim 46, wherein the electrical wiring is connected to at least one electrical connector on an outer surface of the carrier positioned so that the electrical wiring of adjacent carriers can be electrically interconnected when adjacent carriers are pressed together.


48. The solar panel carrier of claim 44, wherein the support structure comprises parallel spaced rails and the attachment structure is configured to allow the carrier to slide along the rails.


49. The solar panel carrier of claim 48, wherein the attachment structure comprises at least one groove in a bottom side of the carrier.


50. The solar panel carrier of claim 49, further including at least one truck mounted in the groove.


51. The solar panel carrier of claim 44, further comprising at least one opening therein to permit a plurality of carriers to be fastened together.


52. The solar panel carrier of claim 51, further comprising at least one protrusion on a top surface of the carrier and corresponding recess on a bottom surface of the carrier to facilitate stacking of carriers.

