
A frame system is disclosed for supporting photovoltaic (PV) panels on a support surface. The frame system may make use of a plurality of frame rails, with each frame rail forming a single piece component having a channel formed therein. Each frame rail may have a first portion and a second portion extending non-parallel to the first portion. The system may also include a plurality of ballast trays for securing to the frame rails. Each ballast tray may have a floor portion being of dimensions adapted to support a predetermined ballast weight thereon, and a connecting bracket secured to the floor portion. The connecting bracket may define a plurality of locations thereon at which end portions of a pair of the frame rails may be connected to the connecting bracket. The connecting bracket enables a degree of adjustable spacing to be provided between adjacent rows of frame rails connected to the connecting bracket.



1. A frame system for supporting photovoltaic panels on a support surface, the frame system comprising:
a plurality of frame rails, each said frame rail forming a single piece component having a channel formed therein, each said frame rail including a first portion and a second portion extending non-parallel to the first portion;
a plurality of ballast trays for securing to the frame rails, each said ballast tray including:
a floor portion being of dimensions adapted to support a predetermined ballast weight thereon; and
a connecting bracket secured to the floor portion, the connecting bracket defining a plurality of locations thereon at which end portions of a pair of the frame rails may be connected to the connecting bracket, to enable a degree of adjustable spacing to be provided between adjacent rows of frame rails connected to the connecting bracket.




2. The frame system of claim 1, wherein the connecting bracket is formed by a pair of L-shaped bracket elements secured to the floor portion of the ballast tray, and wherein the connecting brackets are spaced apart a distance sufficient to enable the end portions of the pair of the frame rails to be positioned therebetween.


3. The frame system of claim 2, wherein the pair of L-shaped bracket elements each include a series of spaced apart holes defining the available locations at which the end portions of the pair of frame rails can be secured to the connecting bracket.


4. The frame system of claim 3, wherein the holes in the L-shaped bracket elements are aligned with one another such that a single fastener may be inserted through an aligned pair of the holes, and through a hole in one of the end portions of one of the frame rails.


5. The frame system of claim 1, wherein the floor portion and the connecting bracket define two approximately equal sized areas on opposite sides of the connecting bracket on which a pair of ballast weights may be placed.


6. The frame system of claim 1, wherein the frame rails each have a hollow interior area and an upwardly opening channel when the frame rails are coupled to at least one of the connecting brackets of one of the ballast trays.


7. The frame system of claim 1, wherein each said ballast tray includes a plurality of tabs that prevent movement of one or more of the ballast weights off of the floor portion of the ballast tray.


8. The frame system of claim 1, wherein the floor portion of at least one of the ballast trays has a footprint sufficiently large to accommodate four of the predetermined ballast weights positioned thereon.


9. The frame system of claim 1, further including a plurality of cross braces coupled to selected ones of the ballast trays.


10. The frame system of claim 1, further comprising a pair of secondary frame rails secured to at least one of the frame rails for assisting in supporting a PV panel thereon, and wherein at least one of the secondary frame rails is adjustably secured to its respective said frame rail.


11. The frame system of claim 10, wherein each of the secondary frame rails includes a channel formed therein that opens upwardly when the secondary frame rails are secured to their respective said frame rail.


12. A frame system for supporting photovoltaic panels on a support surface, the frame system comprising:
a plurality of frame rails, each said frame rail forming a single piece component having a channel formed therein, each said frame rail including a first portion and a second portion extending non-parallel to the first portion;
a plurality of ballast trays for securing to the frame rails, each said ballast tray including:
a floor portion being of dimensions adapted to support a pair of predetermined ballast weights thereon; and
a connecting bracket associated with the floor portion, the connecting bracket defining a plurality of locations thereon at which end portions of a pair of the frame rails may be connected to the connecting bracket, to enable a degree of adjustable spacing to be provided between adjacent rows of frame rails connected to the connecting bracket;
the connecting bracket being positioned on the floor portion to provide two approximately equal sized areas on which the pair of ballast weights can be positioned; and
each said end portion of each of the frame rails being secureable to one of the ballast trays through the use of a single fastening element.




13. The system of claim 12, wherein the connecting bracket includes a pair of L-shaped bracket elements spaced from one another a distance sufficient to allow the end portions of each of the frame rails to be positioned therebetween.


14. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of locations comprises a plurality of spaced apart holes in the bracket elements that form aligned pairs of holes.


15. The system of claim 12, wherein the frame rails include a channel extending along a full length thereof, the channel adapted to receive a fastening element therein.


16. The system of claim 12, wherein the frame rails each include a pair of secondary frame rails secured thereto.


17. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the secondary frame rails include a channel formed therein that opens upwardly when the secondary frame rails are secured to their respective said frame rails.


18. A ballast tray for use with a PV frame system having a plurality of frame rails, where the frame rails are used to support PV panels thereon, the ballast tray comprising:
a floor portion having dimensions to accept at least a pair of ballast members of predetermined dimensions thereon;
a connecting bracket having a pair of bracket elements extending from the floor portion to form a space between which an end portion of each one of a pair of the frame rails may be positioned; and
the bracket elements each including a plurality of holes that form aligned pairs of holes spaced apart from one another along a length of the bracket elements, with each one of the aligned pairs of holes defining a specific location at which the end portion of each one of the one frame rails may be attached; and
wherein the aligned pairs of holes provide an ability to adjustably space the pair of the frame rails attached thereto, to thus provide different spacings to adjacent pairs of PV panels being supported on the pair of frame rails in adjacent rows.



19. The ballast tray of claim 18, wherein an area of the floor portion is divided in half by the connecting bracket, with two approximately equal sized areas of the floor portion accepting the pair of ballast members thereon.


20. The ballast tray of claim 18, wherein an area of the floor portion is divided into four approximately equal portions on which four of the ballast members may be positioned.

