
A frame for jointly mounting at least two rectangular solar modules, wherein the frame comprises at least a group consisting of three parallel rails which are attached to a supporting structure at defined distances from each other,
characterized in that the middle rail of the three rails has a profile with flanges cantilevering towards both sides under which an edge of a solar module can be inserted, and that to the two outer rails of the three rails clamping elements can be bolted, by means of which solar modules inserted into the middle rail can be mounted on the two outer rails, namely on both respective edges which are adjacent to the edge inserted into the middle rail.



1-10. (canceled)


11. A frame for jointly mounting at least two rectangular solar modules, comprising:
a frame that includes a first outer rail, a middle rail and a second outer rail which are attached to a supporting structure at defined distances from each other, wherein the middle rail has a profile with flanges cantilevering towards both sides under which a first edge of a solar module can be inserted, and wherein clamping elements are adapted to secure a second edge of the solar module adjacent to the first edge of the solar module to the first and second outer rails.



12. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the solor panel is rectangularly shaped, and wherein the first edge inserted into the middle rail forms a narrow side of the solar module.


13. The frame according to claim 12, wherein a distance between the middle rail and either of the outer rails is less than or equal to an overall length of the solar module.


14. The frame according to claim 13, wherein a distance between the middle rail and either of the outer rails is between about ⅓ to about ⅛ shorter than the overall length of the solar module.


15. The frame according to claim 14, wherein the middle rail includes a T-shaped profile defining the flanges cantilevering towards both sides of the T-shaped profile, and under which the first edge of the solar module can be inserted.


16. The frame according to claim 15, wherein each of the two outer rails included a screw channel to which the clamping elements are bolted.


17. The frame according to claim 16, wherein the clamping elements each comprise at least one of a rim clamping element and a central clamping element.


18. The frame according to claim 16, wherein the outer rails and the middle rail are oriented substantially horizontal.


19. The frame according to claim 18, wherein the outer rails and the middle rail lie in an inclined plane.


20. The frame according to claim 19, wherein the supporting structure includes at least one of a roof, a movable elevation, and a fixed elevation.


21. The frame according to claim 11, wherein a distance between the middle rail and the either of the outer rails is less than or equal to an overall length of the solar module.


22. The frame according to claim 21, wherein a distance between the middle rail and either of the outer rails is between about ⅓ to about ⅛ shorter than the overall length of the solar module.


23. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the middle rail includes a T-shaped profile defining the flanges cantilevering towards both sides of the T-shaped profile, and under which the first edge of the solar module can be inserted.


24. The frame according to claim 11, wherein each of the two outer rails included a screw channel to which the clamping elements are bolted.


25. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the clamping elements each comprise at least one of a rim clamping element and a central clamping element.


26. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the outer rails and the middle rail are oriented substantially horizontal.


27. The frame according to claim 26, wherein the outer rails and the middle rail lie in an inclined plane.


28. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the supporting structure includes at least one of a roof, a movable elevation, and a fixed elevation.

