
The invention relates to a support (1) for a solar panel (100), particularly for mounting a solar panel (100), having a bottom part which has a base (2) and assembly elements which are provided on an underside of the base (2) and which are intended for the purpose of assembly on an essentially flat foundation, particularly a roof, having a top, which is essentially opposite the underside and which supports the panel, with fastening means which hold the solar panel (100) obliquely with respect to the bottom part or a roof plane in a mounted state, and having a front with a surface which directs the wind (140) and which is oriented obliquely inwards towards the top from a front region of the bottom part in order to direct wind (140) towards the top in the direction of an upper edge of a solar panel (100) mounted on the support (1), wherein the surface directing the wind has an upwardly oriented tangent (W1-W3) which extends in a region around the junction between the front and the top of the support and in a direction crossways with respect to the upper edge (101) of a solar panel (100) mounted on the support through the upper edge of the solar panel or outside the solar panel.



1. A support for mounting a solar panel, comprising:
a bottom part which comprises a base and positioning elements provided on an underside of the base which are intended for placement on an essentially flat ground surface, in particular on a roof;
a panel-bearing upper side essentially opposite the underside having fastening means which hold the solar panel in a mounted state inclined with respect to the bottom part or a roof plane; and
a front side having a wind-guiding surface, which is directed from a front region of the bottom part inclined inwardly upwards, in order to guide wind in the direction of an upper edge of a solar panel mounted on the support;
wherein, in a region of the transition from the front side to the upper side of the support and in a direction transverse to the upper edge of a solar panel mounted on the support, the wind-guiding surface has an upwardly directed tangent which extends through the upper edge of the solar panel or outside of the solar panel.



2. (canceled)


3. A support according to claim 1, wherein lateral boundaries of the wind-guiding surface form openings or spaces through which a portion of the incident wind can enter under a solar panel mounted on the support.


4. A support according to claim 1, wherein the support includes a first elevation at the front side, a front wall of which forms the wind-guiding surface.


5. A support according to claim 4, wherein the support includes a second elevation at the rear side, wherein the first and the second elevation determine the inclined orientation of the solar panel with respect to the base or the roof plane.


6. A support according to claim 5, wherein the first and the second elevation respectively have an upper surface, wherein the upper surfaces form the panel-bearing upper side of the support and thereby define the inclined orientation of the solar panel with respect to the base or the roof plane.


7. A support according to claim 6, wherein the fastening means for fastening the solar panel are located at the upper surfaces of the first and second elevations.


8. A support according to claim 5, wherein side walls of the first elevation form lateral boundaries of the wind-guiding surface, whereby the wind can pass the side walls and enter into a sub-space between the solar panel and the bottom part of the support.


9. A support according to claim 8, wherein side walls of the second elevation or the second ridge are formed in such a manner that the wind moving through the sub-space between the solar panel and the bottom part can move past the side walls and out of the sub-space.


10. A support according to claim 5, wherein the first elevation and the second elevation are connected with one another by means of at least one stiffening rib or elongate ridge.


11. (canceled)


12. A support according to claim 1, wherein the wind-guiding surface extends in a direction parallel to the upper edge over at least half of the width of the bottom part.


13. A support according to claim 1, wherein the width of the wind-guiding surface in a direction parallel to the upper edge decreases in the upwards direction, with lateral boundaries at opposite sides of the wind-guiding surface being angled inwardly upwards from a lateral edge region of the bottom part.


14. (canceled)


15. A support according to claim 1, wherein the wind-guiding surface is substantially straight and substantially flat.


16. A support according to claim 1, wherein the upper side of the support is constructed in such a manner that the solar panel is supported at an angle from 10 to 40 degrees with respect to the underside or a roof plane.


17. A support according to claim 1, wherein the wind-guiding surface comprises an upwardly directed tangent which is at an angle from 40 to 70 degrees with respect to the underside or a roof plane.


18. A support according to claim 1, wherein fastening means comprise first, fastening parts which engage the upper edge of the solar panel, wherein the first fastening parts are provided with a first overlap section which extends or reaches over the upper edge of the solar panel, the overlap section defining a first groove at its underside within which the upper edge of the solar panel is received.


19. A support according to claim 18, wherein the first fastening parts form a direct continuation of at least a portion of the wind-guiding surface.


20. (canceled)


21. A support according to claim 18, wherein the first fastening parts are provided with a first overlap section which extends or reaches over the upper edge of the solar panel, wherein the overlap section defines a first groove at its underside within which the upper edge of the solar panel is received.


22. A support according to claim 18, wherein the fastening means comprise second fastening parts which engage a lower edge of the solar panel extending opposite the upper edge, wherein the second fastening parts comprise a second overlap section that reaches over the lower edge, the second overlap section defining a groove at its underside in which the lower edge of the solar panel is received.


23. (canceled)


24. (canceled)


25. (canceled)


26. A support according to claim 1, wherein the support comprises at least one ballast chamber accessible from the upper side, wherein the ballast chamber has a base that forms at least a portion of the bottom part.


27. (canceled)


28. A support according to claim 26, wherein the ballast chamber is located centrally with respect to the positioning elements.


29. A support according to claim 26, wherein the ballast chamber is located at a short spacing from a side edge of the bottom part of the support extending transverse to the front side.


30. (canceled)


31. (canceled)


32. A support according to claim 5, wherein the support comprises at least one ballast chamber accessible from the upper side, and wherein the first and second elevation define at least a portion of the ballast chamber.


33. A support according to claim 1, wherein the support includes first and a second side edge region extending transverse to the front side, each provided with a first or second hollow coupling member, wherein the first coupling member is constructed to at least partially receive the second coupling member of an identical support.


34. A support according to claim 1, wherein the support is formed so as to be stacked on an identical support by nesting in one another.


35. A support according to claim 34, wherein the support is molded substantially entirely from thin-walled plastic material.


36. (canceled)


37. An assembly comprising:
at least one support according to claim 1; and
a solar panel mounted on the support.



38. An assembly according to claim 37, comprising multiple supports and multiple solar panels, wherein each of the solar panels is mounted on a respective one of the supports.


39. A support according to claim 4, wherein the first elevation is formed as an elongate ridge-like protrusion from the base that extends substantially parallel to the upper edge of the solar panel.


40. A support according to claim 5, wherein the first elevation is formed as an elongate ridge-like protrusion from the base and the second elevation is formed as elongate ridge-like protrusion from the base, wherein both of the first and second elevations extend substantially parallel to the upper edge of the solar panel. 

