
A mounting assembly (70c) for installing solar cell or photovoltaic modules (58) on a building surface (34) is disclosed. The mounting assembly (70c) includes a mounting device (74), a stud (114) that may be threaded to the mounting device (74), a clamping member (142) that may be positioned on the stud (114), and a nut (128) that may be threaded onto the stud (114) to secure the clamping member (142) to the mounting device (74). A mounting plate (110′) is disposed somewhere between the clamping member (142) and the mounting device (74). This mounting plate (110′) includes a raised structure or dome (174) on its upper surface (170) for positionally registering modules (58) thereto, a plurality of grounding projections (172) on this same upper surface (170), and a plurality of wiring tabs or clips (178) on its lower surface (176).



1. A photovoltaic system, comprising:
a building surface;
a plurality of mounting assemblies comprising a first mounting assembly, wherein each said mounting assembly comprises:
a mounting device mounted to said building surface;
a mounting plate positioned on said mounting device and comprising oppositely disposed upper and lower surfaces, wherein said lower surface of said mounting plate comprises at least one wiring clip;
a clamping member comprising first and second clamping legs; and
a threaded clamp fastener that extends through said clamping member, through said mounting plate, and that is secured to said mounting device; and

first and second photovoltaic modules positioned on said upper surface of said mounting plate of said first mounting assembly, wherein said first clamping leg of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said first photovoltaic module, and wherein said second clamping leg of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said second photovoltaic module.



2. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said lower surface of said mounting plate comprises a plurality of said wiring clips.


3. The photovoltaic system of claim 2, wherein said plurality of wiring clips are equally spaced about said threaded clamp fastener.


4. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein each said wiring clip is integrally formed with said mounting plate.


5. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein each said wiring clip comprises a recessed region.


6. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said mounting plate further comprises an aperture associated with each said wiring clip, wherein said aperture provides access to a space below said mounting plate.


7. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said upper surface of said mounting plate comprises a plurality of grounding projections.


8. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein said plurality of grounding projections are spaced about said threaded clamp fastener.


9. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein said plurality of grounding projections are equally spaced about said threaded clamp fastener.


10. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said first photovoltaic module, and wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said second photovoltaic module.


11. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with a frame of said first photovoltaic module, and wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with a frame of said second photovoltaic module.


12. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said first photovoltaic module for each angular position of said mounting plate on said mounting device, wherein at least one of said plurality of grounding projections of said first mounting assembly is engaged with said second photovoltaic module for each angular position of said mounting plate on said mounting device, and wherein said angular position of said mounting plate is an angle between first and second reference lines that extend from said threaded clamp fastener and that are contained within a common plane, with said first reference line being in a fixed position relative to said mounting plate and with said second reference line moving with said mounting plate as said mounting plate is rotated about an axis coinciding with said threaded clamp fastener.


13. The photovoltaic system of claim 7, wherein each of said plurality of grounding projections is integrally formed with said mounting plate.


14. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein each said mounting device comprises a slot and at least one seam fastener that extends through said mounting device and engages a corresponding standing seam of said building surface and that is disposed within said slot.


15. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein each of said mounting plate and said clamping member comprise un-threaded holes through which said threaded clamp fastener extends.


16. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said mounting plate of each said mounting assembly is clamped onto its corresponding said mounting device by its corresponding said clamping member.


17. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said mounting plate of each said mounting assembly is located between its corresponding said mounting device and its corresponding said clamping member.


18. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein said upper surface of said mounting plate has a surface area of at least about 5 in.2. 

