
Energy converters are monitored to ensure that they are operating at acceptable levels. An expected output is predicted using mathematical modeling and compared to the actual output generated by the energy converter. When the difference is above a predetermined threshold, the level of underperformance, along with other parameters, are used to determine a possible cause of underperformance and actions that can be taken to increase the output to acceptable levels. The cause and actions are transmitted to personnel, who are dispatched to service the underperforming energy converter. By centrally locating the mathematical modeling, monitoring, and dispatching, multiple PV modules can be managed from a remote location. When monitoring photovoltaic modules, an irradiation sensor employs multiple photosensors oriented to detect not only the normal components of sunlight but also directional, diffused components of sunlight, thereby increasing the accuracy of the mathematical modeling.



1. A system for monitoring an efficiency of an energy converter comprising:
a module configured to determine an amount that an output of the energy converter differs from a predicted output for the energy converter.



2. The system of claim 1, wherein the module is also configured to determine a possible cause of underperformance for the energy converter, a strategy for diagnosing the possible cause of the underperformance, a corresponding remedial action, or any combination thereof.


3. The system of claim 1, wherein the predicted output is based on operating conditions of the energy converter.


4. The system of claim 3, wherein the operating conditions comprise a current time of day, a current month, or both.


5. The system of claim 3, wherein the operating conditions correspond to a microclimate surrounding the energy converter.


6. The system of claim 3, wherein the module is also configured to receive the operating conditions from a weather monitoring system over the Internet.


7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a monitor for measuring the output of the energy converter.


8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a transmission module for notifying an agent when an underperformance metric of the energy converter exceeds a predetermined threshold.


9. The system of claim 1, wherein the energy converter comprises one or more photovoltaic cells, one or more solar heating units, one or more wind turbines, or one or more water turbines.


10. The system of claim 2, wherein the predicted output, the possible cause of the underperformance, a strategy for diagnosing the possible cause of underperformance, the corresponding remedial action, or any combination thereof are automatically determined using a learning algorithm.


11. A system for monitoring an efficiency of a photovoltaic array comprising:
a monitor configured to measure an output of the photovoltaic array; and
a first module configured to determine an amount the output differs from a predicted output of the photovoltaic array.



12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first module is also configured to determine a possible cause of underperformance for the photovoltaic array, a strategy for diagnosing the possible cause of underperformance, a corresponding remedial action, or any combination thereof.


13. The system of claim 12, wherein a possible cause of underperformance includes theft or vandalism of a component of the photovoltaic array, a fault in the photovoltaic array, a presence of an object blocking illumination to the photovoltaic array, or any combination thereof.


14. The system of claim 11, wherein the predicted output is determined from illumination parameters of the photovoltaic array.


15. The system of claim 14, wherein the illumination parameters are related to a microclimate for the photovoltaic array.


16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first module is also configured to receive microclimate information from a weather monitoring system over the Internet.


17. The system of claim 14, wherein the illumination parameters comprise a current time of day, a current month, and an incidence angle of illumination on the photovoltaic array.


18. The system of claim 11, wherein the predicted output is determined from an amount of irradiation striking the photovoltaic array, an incidence angle of irradiation striking the photovoltaic array, a temperature of the photovoltaic array, or any combination thereof.


19. The system of claim 11, wherein the predicated output is based on predetermined operating characteristics of the photovoltaic array.


20. The system of claim 11, further comprising a second module configured to receive the measured output and transmit an underperformance value, a cause of underperformance, a strategy for diagnosing the cause of underperformance, a corresponding remedial action, or any combination thereof to an agent.


21. A system comprising:
a first module configured to determine underperformance values of multiple energy conversion units in multiple different geographic locations; and
a second module configured to determine for each of the underperformance values a possible cause of underperformance, a strategy for diagnosing a cause of the underperformance, and a corresponding remedial action.



22. The system of claim 21, wherein the first module monitors outputs from each of the multiple energy conversion units to determine the underperformance values.


23. The system of claim 21, wherein the second module monitors current microclimates surrounding each of the multiple energy conversion units to determine the underperformance values.


24. A method of monitoring a performance of an energy converter comprising:
determining an underperformance for the energy converter; and
determining a remedial action for increasing the output.



25. The method of claim 24, wherein determining the underperformance comprises comparing an output of the energy converter to a predicted output of the energy converter.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein the predicated output is based at least on a current microclimate surrounding the energy converter.


27. The method of claim 26, further comprising receiving information over the Internet to determine the current microclimate.


28. The method of claim 24, further comprising determining a strategy for diagnosing a possible cause of underperformance.


29. The method of claim 28, further comprising determining a possible cause of the underperformance.


30. The method of claim 29, further comprising determining a remedial action corresponding to the possible cause of the underperformance.


31. The method of claim 24, further comprising transmitting to an agent information identifying a possible cause of the underperformance, a corresponding remedial action, or both.


32. The method of claim 24, wherein a possible cause of underperformance, a strategy for diagnosing the possible cause, a corresponding remedial action, or any combination thereof is automatically updated using a learning algorithm.


33. The method of claim 24, wherein the energy converter comprises one or more photovoltaic cells, one or more solar heating units, one or more wind turbines, or one or more water turbines.


34. A device comprising:
multiple light detectors directed in different directions, wherein the device is configured to determine irradiance impinging on the multiple light detectors.



35. The device of claim 34, wherein a portion of the multiple light detectors are directed outwardly at different angles about a central axis.


36. The device of claim 34, wherein the different directions comprise a first direction along a vector and second directions at one or more angles to the vector.


37. The device of claim 34, wherein the multiple light detectors comprise a pyranometer directed in the first direction and multiple photosensors directed in the second directions.


38. The device of claim 35, further comprising a shade between the pyranometer and the multiple photosensors.


39. A device for measuring irradiance comprising:
a pyranometer directed along a central axis of a frusto-conical surface; and
multiple photosensors distributed about the frusto-conical surface.



40. The device of claim 39, further comprising an opaque shield that entirely overlies the multiple photosensors.


41. The device of claim 39, further comprising an opaque shield arranged to shadow the multiple sensors from direct sunlight traversing an arc containing the central axis.


42. The device of claim 41, wherein the arc is at least 45 degrees.


43. A system for monitoring an efficiency of a photovoltaic array comprising:
a module configured to determine an amount that an output of the photovoltaic array differs from a predicted output for the photovoltaic array; and
an irradiance sensor adjacent to the photovoltaic array, wherein the irradiance sensor comprises multiple light detectors directed in different directions and an opaque light shield that entirely overlies a portion of the multiple light detectors. 


