
A solar panel mounting system that supports field installation of solar panels. The system comprises a carrier for holding a plurality of individual solar panels together as a unit and an attachment structure on the carrier for mounting the carrier to a support structure. The support structure may comprise a plurality of spaced parallel rails. The carrier can be slidably mounted to the spaced parallel rails using the attachment structure provided on the carrier.



1. A solar panel mounting apparatus, comprising:
a carrier for holding a plurality of individual solar panels together as a unit; and
an attachment structure on the carrier for mounting the carrier to a support structure.



2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of spaced parallel rails.


3. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the carrier includes a plurality of recessed areas, each for holding at least one solar panel therein.


4. A mounting apparatus as in claim 3, wherein each recessed area has an associated engagement mechanism for engaging with a solar panel to hold it within the recessed area.


5. A mounting apparatus as in claim 3, wherein each of the recessed areas have an electrical connector therein for connection with an electrical connector on a solar panel.


6-7. (canceled)


8. A mounting apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the carrier further comprises electrical wiring for interconnecting solar panels installed thereon.


9. (canceled)


10. A mounting apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the attachment structure is configured to allow the carrier to slide along the spaced parallel rails.


11. (canceled)


12. A mounting apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the attachment structure comprises a plurality of spaced grooves that slidably engage the spaced parallel rails.


13-17. (canceled)


18. A mounting apparatus as in claim 2, further including a truck mounted within the attachment structure that permits the carrier to slide along the spaced parallel rails.


19. A mounting apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the truck comprises a plurality of rollers spaced along the length of the truck.


20-21. (canceled)


22. A mounting apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the spaced parallel rails have elongated tracks and the truck is configured to engage the tracks on the rails.


23. A mounting apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the attachment structure further comprises a fastener for locking the carrier in position on the rails.


24. (canceled)


25. A mounting apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the electrical wiring is connectable to an electrical harness on the support structure.


26. A mounting apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the electrical wiring is connected to an electrical connector on the carrier.


27. A mounting apparatus as in claim 26, wherein the electrical connector is positioned so that the electrical wiring of adjacent carriers are electrically interconnected when adjacent carriers are pressed together.


28. (canceled)


29. A mounting apparatus as in claim 4, wherein the engagement mechanism comprises a lip groove in each recessed area for holding an edge of a solar panel and at least one clip for holding an opposing edge of the solar panel in the recessed area, the solar panel being held in the recessed area by the lip groove and clip.


30. A mounting apparatus as in claim 29, wherein the at least one clip is fastenable to the carrier to hold a solar panel in place.


31-32. (canceled)


33. A mounting apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of solar panels mounted on the carrier.


34-35. (canceled)


36. A mounting apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the carrier comprises a series of spaced elongated members for holding at least one row of solar panels, the spaced elongated members being connected by the attachment structure.


37. A mounting apparatus as in claim 36, wherein the solar panels are mounted on top of the spaced elongated members and secured by clips.


38-50. (canceled)

