
The present application provides a solar panel system. The solar panel system may include an aluminum outer frame, one or more photovoltaic panels positioned within the aluminum outer frame, and an adjustable support system connected to the aluminum outer frame such that the aluminum outer frame with the one or more photovoltaic panels includes a number of tilt angles.



1. A solar panel system, comprising:
an aluminum outer frame;
a plurality of photovoltaic panels positioned within the aluminum outer frame; and
an adjustable support sys connected to the aluminum outer frame such that the aluminum outer frame with the plurality of photovoltaic panels comprise a plurality of tilt angles.



2. The solar panel system of claim 1, further comprising a heat transfer plate positioned within the aluminum outer frame and supporting the plurality of photovoltaic panels.


3. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of photovoltaic panels comprises one or more thin-film photovoltaic panels.


4. The solar panel system of claim 1, further comprising a solar thermal subsystem positioned within the aluminum outer frame.


5. The solar panel system of claim 4, wherein the solar thermal subsystem comprises a plurality of heat exchange coils positioned about a heat transfer plate.


6. The solar panel system of claim 5, wherein the solar thermal subsystem comprises an insulator positioned about the plurality of heat exchange coils.


7. The solar panel system of claim 4, further comprising a boiler in communication with the solar thermal subsystem.


8. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable support system comprises a pivoting front bracket assembly.


9. The solar panel system of claim 8, wherein the pivoting front bracket assembly comprises a frame bracket positioned within a cup.


10. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable support system comprises a pivoting back bracket assembly.


11. The solar panel system of claim 10, wherein the pivoting back bracket assembly comprises one or more adjustable support arms.


12. The solar panel system of claim 11, wherein the one or more adjustable support arms each comprise a plurality of interlocking channels.


13. The solar panel system of claim 10, wherein the pivoting back bracket assembly comprises a pivot bracket.


14. The solar panel system of claim 13, wherein the pivot bracket comprises a cup and an attachment clip.


15. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable support system comprises a roof mounting system.


16. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable support system comprises a ground mounting system.


17. The solar panel system of claim 1, wherein solar panel system comprises a derate factor of about 1.0 or higher.


18. A method of using a solar panel system with a plurality of photovoltaic panels positioned within an outer frame, comprising:
attaching a first end of the outer frame to a support structure via a front bracket;
attaching a second end of the outer frame to the support structure via a back bracket; and
adjusting a tilt angle of the outer frame with the plurality of photovoltaic panels by adjusting an orientation of the back bracket.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of adjusting the tilt angle of the outer frame further comprises pivoting the outer frame about the front bracket.


20. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of adjusting a tilt angle of the outer frame by adjusting an orientation of the back bracket comprises adjusting a length of the back bracket and/or pivoting the back bracket.


21. An integrated solar panel system, comprising:
an aluminum outer frame;
a plurality of thin-film photovoltaic panels positioned within the aluminum outer frame; and
a solar thermal subsystem positioned within the aluminum outer frame.



22. The integrated solar panel system of claim 21, further comprising an adjustable support system connected to the aluminum outer frame such that the aluminum outer frame with the plurality of thin-film photovoltaic panels and the solar thermal subsystem comprise a plurality of tilt angles.


23. The integrated solar panel system of claim 21, wherein the integrated solar panel system comprises a weight of less than about 1.5 pounds per square foot (about 7.3 kilograms per square meter).


24. A solar panel system, comprising:
an aluminum outer frame;
a plurality of thin-film photovoltaic panels positioned within the aluminum outer frame; and
a derate factor of about 1.0 or higher.



25. The solar panel system of claim 24, further comprising a solar thermal subsystem positioned within the aluminum outer frame.


26. The solar panel system of claim 24, further comprising an adjustable support system connected to the aluminum outer frame such that the aluminum outer frame with the plurality of thin-film photovoltaic panels comprise a plurality of tilt angles. 

