
Provided are methods, circuits, and systems for obtaining power from a power generator such as a photovoltaic cell or a fuel cell. The methods, circuits, and systems comprise converting substantially DC output power from the power generator into a high frequency AC voltage while rejecting or minimizing oscillations in the output power from the power generator; converting the high frequency AC voltage into a high frequency substantially sinusoidal voltage or current; and converting the high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current into (i) a DC voltage or current, and (ii) a low frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current; wherein the high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current is isolated from the DC voltage or current or the low frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current.



1. A power converter for use with a power generator, comprising:
a high side input point and a low side input point for receiving substantially DC power from the power generator;
a capacitor connected across the high side and low side input points;
a first means that receives voltage across the capacitor and converts the voltage into a high frequency AC voltage while rejecting or minimizing oscillations in the received voltage;
a second means that converts the high frequency AC voltage into a substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current;
an isolating transformer that receives the substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current;
a third means that converts a high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current from the transformer into (i) a low frequency substantially sinusoidal AC output voltage or current; and (ii) a DC output voltage or current; and
a high side output point and a low side output point for outputting the output voltage or current.



2. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the first means comprises a chopper circuit.


3. The power converter of claim 2, wherein switches of the chopper circuit are controlled using pulse width modulation.


4. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the second means comprises a resonant circuit.


5. The power converter of claim 4, wherein the resonant circuit is a series resonant circuit.


6. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the third means comprises a rectifier and optional filter, and the output is a DC voltage or current.


7. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the third means comprises a rectifier and an inverter controlled using modified pulse width modulation, and the output is an AC voltage or current.


8. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the power generator is a photovoltaic (PV) cell or a fuel cell.


9. The power converter of claim 1, wherein the power generator is at least one PV cell.


10. A micro-inverter for a distributed power generator, comprising:
the power converter of claim 1; and
a controller that controls operation of switches in the first means by comparing the voltage across the capacitor with a reference voltage so as to minimize voltage fluctuations across the capacitor.



11. The micro-inverter of claim 10, wherein the controller includes one or more of a modified pulse width modulator, a duty cycle controller, and a maximum power point tracker.


12. The micro-inverter of claim 10, wherein the duty cycle controller comprises a proportional integral-derivative compensator.


13. A power generation system, comprising:
at least one micro-inverter of claim 10; and
at least one power generator.



14. The system of claim 13, wherein each power generator is connected to a micro-inverter.


15. The system of claim 13, wherein the power generator is a photovoltaic (PV) cell or a fuel cell.


16. The system of claim 13, wherein the power generator is at least one PV cell.


17. A method for obtaining power from a power generator, comprising:
converting substantially DC output power from the power generator into a high frequency AC voltage while rejecting or minimizing oscillations in the output power from the power generator;
converting the high frequency AC voltage into a high frequency substantially sinusoidal voltage or current; and
converting the high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current into (i) a DC voltage or current, and (ii) a low frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current;
wherein the high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current is isolated from the DC voltage or current or the low frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current.



18. The method of claim 17, comprising using a chopper to convert output power from the power generator into a high frequency AC voltage.


19. The method of claim 18, comprising using pulse width modulation to control one or more switches of the chopper circuit.


20. The method of claim 19, including comparing of the power generator with a reference voltage so as to minimize voltage fluctuations of the power generator.


21. The method of claim 17, comprising using a resonant circuit to convert the high frequency AC voltage into a high frequency substantially sinusoidal AC voltage or current.


22. The method of claim 21, comprising using a series resonant circuit.


23. The method of claim 17, wherein the power generator is a photovoltaic cell or a fuel cell.


24. The method of claim 17, wherein the power generator is at least one PV cell.


25. The method of claim 17, further comprising connecting the low frequency substantially sinusoidal output voltage or current to a power distribution grid.


26. The micro-inverter of claim 1 integrated into a PV cell or module.


27. The micro-inverter of claim 26, wherein the micro-inverter includes one or more feature selected from communication, inversion (DC to AC conversion), peak power tracking, and islanding.


28. The micro-inverter of claim 26, wherein integration of the micro-inverter with the PV cell or module includes packaging of the micro-inverter either substantially together or incorporated into the module packaging, or in a manner that substantially unifies the micro-inverter with the module packaging.


29. The micro-inverter of claim 28, wherein the PV cell or module packaging is pre-existing or is designed to accommodate the micro-inverter.


30. The micro-inverter of claim 27, wherein an inversion portion of the micro-inverter is of a design selected from current source, voltage source, resonant, and may include single or multiple power stages.

