
This invention generally relates to an integrated photovoltaic roof assembly for constructing a building integrated photovoltaic system commonly known as BIPV. The invention enables the photovoltaic panels to serve as a water proof envelop of a building while generating electricity from the sun. The photovoltaic roof assembly consists of a plurality of solar panels fitted to a lattice mounting structure comprises of perpendicularly interconnected profiles with flushed surfaces and built-in gutters. There are few components required and no restriction on the gradient of the roof. Neither skilled labor nor special tool such as welding is required for installing the integrated photovoltaic roof assembly.



1. A photovoltaic roof assembly comprises a lattice mounting structure having a plurality of perpendicularly interconnected profiles forming a plurality of rectangular receptacle frames each to accommodate a photovoltaic panel.


2. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the interconnected profiles comprise a plurality of short profiles overlapping onto long profiles forming a plurality of rectangle frames.


3. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein each of the plurality of rectangle frames has a flushed surface for a photovoltaic panel to be mounted.


4. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 3 wherein the long profile consist of a base to be mounted onto the underlying roof structure such as a purlin, at least a step rib for the short profile to be seated, at least a gutter groove for draining away condensates and water leakage, a flat mounting section for the photovoltaic panel to be mounted, at least a guide rib for enclosing the photovoltaic panel edges and provisions for wires to be kept.


5. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the short profiles consist of a base, a flat mounting section for the photovoltaic panel to be attached, a gutter for draining off the condensates and a guide rib for the enclosing the photovoltaic panel edges.


6. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein each of the short profiles is placed onto the step ribs of the two perpendicularly adjacent long profiles such that the flat mounting section of all the profiles are flushed.


7. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed 6 wherein each of the profiles is a single element preferably made of aluminum alloy extrusion.


8. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein the photovoltaic panel is attached on the flat mounting section of the lattice mounting structure and aligned with the guild ribs of both the short and long profiles.


9. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 8 wherein the photovoltaic panels are mounted onto the lattice mounting structure using structural adhesives.


10. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein outdoor sealant is applied to seal the gap between adjacent photovoltaic panels.


11. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein a metal strip preferred to be an extruded aluminum profile is fitted to the guide ribs of the lattice mounting structure to clamp down the photovoltaic panels.


12. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photovoltaic panel is a photovoltaic panel with polymer frame.


13. The photovoltaic roof assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photovoltaic panel is a laminate, glass or metal composite.

