
An apparatus for power conversion includes an inverter; a converter configurable to function as a DC voltage booster; and a controller for selectively causing the converter to provide a boosted DC voltage to the inverter.



1. An apparatus for power conversion, said apparatus comprising:
an inverter;
a converter configurable to function as a DC voltage booster; and
a controller for selectively causing said converter to provide a boosted DC voltage to said inverter.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to cause said converter to transition from a first state, in which said converter converts DC into AC, to a second state, in which said converter converts DC into boosted DC.


3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a common bus connecting a DC terminal of said inverter to a DC terminal of said converter.


4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a first contactor for selectively connecting said common bus to a DC source.


5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said controller is configured to close said first contactor, thereby enabling DC voltage to be provided as DC inputs to said inverter and said converter, and to open said first contactor, thereby disconnecting said inverter from said DC source.


6. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a set of contactors, said set having a first subset of contactors and a second subset of contactors, said second subset of contactors being the complementary subset of said first subset of contactors, wherein said controller is configured to transition between said first state and said second state by causing a change in state of all contactors in said first subset and causing a change in state in all contactors of said second subset.


7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said controller is configured to transition between said first state and said second state by opening all contactors in said first subset and closing all contactors in said second subset.


8. The apparatus of claim 1,
further comprising a voltage sensor in communication with said controller for determining a DC voltage, and
wherein said controller is configured to selectively cause said converter to provided said boosted DC voltage to said inverter upon determining that a DC voltage has crossed a threshold.



9. An apparatus for causing AC having a specified amplitude to be generated from DC having a variable voltage level, said apparatus comprising:
means for determining whether a first DC voltage level is sufficient to generate said AC having said specified amplitude; and
means for selectively boosting said first voltage level to a second DC voltage level in response to a determination, from said means for determining, that said first voltage level is inadequate for generating said AC having said specified amplitude.



10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for determining comprises a controller in communication with a sensor for measuring, or determining, a voltage level.


11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for selectively boosting comprises a controller configured to control an inverter.


12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for selectively boosting comprises a plurality of contactors, said plurality having first and second configurations, wherein said second configuration causes a DC voltage to be boosted.


13. A method for generating AC having a specified amplitude from DC having a variable voltage level, said method comprising:
determining that a DC voltage provided by a DC source has a DC voltage level that is inadequate to generate said AC;
boosting said DC voltage level;
providing said boosted DC voltage to an inverter for conversion into said AC;
determining that said DC voltage level provided by said DC source has become adequate to generate said AC; and
providing said DC voltage from said DC source to said inverter for conversion into AC.



14. The method of claim 13, wherein providing said boosted DC voltage to an inverter comprises disconnecting said inverter from said DC source.


15. The method of claim 13, wherein boosting said DC voltage level comprises causing a converter to switch from generating an AC voltage from a DC voltage to generating a first DC voltage from a second DC voltage.


16. The method of claim 13, wherein providing said boosted DC voltage level to an inverter comprising disconnecting the inverter from said DC source.


17. The method of claim 13, wherein boosting said DC voltage level comprises dynamically reconfiguring a connection between said inverter and said DC voltage.


18. The method of claim 13, wherein boosting said DC voltage level comprises carrying out double-conversion of said DC voltage, and wherein providing said DC voltage from said DC source to said inverter comprises carrying out single-conversion of said DC voltage.


19. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a photovoltaic array for providing said inverter with a DC voltage to be boosted.


20. The method of claim 13, wherein determining that a DC voltage provided by a DC source has a DC voltage level that is inadequate to generate said AC comprises receiving a DC voltage level from a photovoltaic array. 

