
A solar panel mount comprising an end cap which supports the solar panel on a support structure. A support frame is pivotably supported by the end cap and the support frame has a plurality of cross members secured to a top surface thereof. A plurality of transverse members are secured to a top surface of the plurality of cross members and the plurality of transverse members are adjustable along a length of the cross members to accommodate different size solar panels. Each traverse member generally comprises an elongate inverted T-shaped base member and mating clamp member which is attached thereto by at least one fastener.



1. A solar panel mount comprising:
an end cap for supporting the solar panel mount, in a rotational manner, on a support;
a support frame being pivotably supported by the end cap about a pivot axis;
a plurality of cross members being secured to a top surface of the support frame; and
a plurality of transverse members being secured to a top surface of the plurality of cross members, and the plurality of transverse members being adjustable along a length of the cross members to accommodate different size solar panels between adjacent ones of the plurality of transverse members.



2. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the support frame comprises:
a pair of adjustable support beams having an intermediate section hingedly connected to the end cap while a remote end of each support beam has a plurality of adjustment apertures and an adjustment arm interconnects a desired one of the adjustment apertures with the end cap.



3. The solar panel mount according to claim 2, wherein a first end of the adjustment arm is pivotably attached to the end cap while a second end of the adjustment arm has an adjustment bore which is alignable with one of the adjustment apertures of the support beams.


4. The solar panel mount according to claim 3, wherein when the adjustment bore of the adjustment arm engages with an outermost adjustment aperture of the support beams, the support beams are pivoted and retained in a substantially horizontal arrangement which is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the end cap and assists with assembly and installation of the solar panel mount, and when the alignment aperture of the adjustment arm engages with an innermost adjustment aperture of the support beams, the adjustable support beams are tilted to an orientation of about 65 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the end cap.


5. The solar panel mount according to claim 2, wherein each adjustable support beam generally comprises of a pair of L-shaped angle members which are arranged, back to back, with respect to one another and spaced apart by one another by a plurality of spacers which form a gap between the first and second L-shaped angle members.


6. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein between three and five cross members are secured to the top surface of the support frame.


7. The solar panel mount according to claim 2, wherein each of the cross members comprises a U-shaped member having a bottom surface which is connected to the support beam by at least one fastener.


8. The solar panel mount according to claim 7, wherein each U-shaped member has at least two mounting holes formed in a base thereof to facilitate securing of the cross member to the support beams, and each one of the U-shaped cross members has a pair of inwardly extending flanges which extend along the entire length of the U-shaped cross member and extend toward one another.


9. The solar panel mount according to claim 8, wherein each U-shaped cross member has a length of 16 and 200 inches.


10. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein each traverse member generally comprises an elongate inverted T-shaped base member and mating clamp member which is attached thereto by at least one fastener.


11. The solar panel mount according to claim 10, wherein the T-shaped base member generally comprises a central leg and a pair of outwardly extending arms, an elongate slot is formed within the central leg and extends along an entire length of the central leg with each inwardly facing surface of the elongate slot having a portion of a thread form thereon.


12. The solar panel mount according to claim 11, wherein each outwardly extending arm has a support surface for supporting a bottom surface of a solar panel and a plurality of holes are formed along a length of each outwardly extending arm to facilitate securing a rear surface of a solar panel thereto.


13. The solar panel mount according to claim 10, wherein the clamp member has generally flat surface which forms a mating support surface for a top surface of a solar panel to facilitate clamping of a top of the solar panel to the solar panel mount.


14. The solar panel mount according to claim 10, wherein each of the T-shaped base member and clamp member has a pair of elongate inner stop lips which extend along an entire length of the clamp member for preventing over insertion of a solar panel with respect to the T-shaped base members.


15. The solar panel mount according to claim 10, wherein the T-shaped base member is provided with an elongate groove, which extends along a length of the T-shaped base member and the mating clamp member is provided with an elongate groove, which extends along a length of the mating clamp member, and a trim member is accommodated within the mating grooves to assists with securing at least one solar panel to the solar panel mount such that opposed surfaces of the inverted T-shaped base member and the mating clamp member remain substantially parallel to one another.


16. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the solar panel mount is provided with at least one ground connection for grounding the solar panel mount.


17. The solar panel mount according to claim 1, wherein the end cap is generally cylindrical in shape and is provided with an alignment feature which facilitates maintaining the end cap in a desired position, relative to a support structure while permitting the end cap to rotate relative to the support structure.


18. The solar panel mount according to claim 18, wherein the alignment feature comprises at least one threaded aperture formed in the end cap at least one set screw engaging the at least one threaded aperture for maintaining the end cap in a desired orientation relative to the support structure.


19. A method of providing a solar panel mount which can be adjusted to a desired solar energy collecting orientation, the method comprising the steps of:
providing the solar panel mount with an end cap for supporting the solar panel mount in a rotatable manner on a support;
pivotably supporting a support frame to the end cap in which the support frame is able to pivot about a pivot axis;
securing a plurality of cross members to a top surface of the support frame; and
securing a plurality of transverse members to a top surface of the plurality of cross members, and permitting the plurality of transverse members to be adjustable along a length of the cross members to accommodate different size solar panels between adjacent ones of the plurality of transverse members.


