
A modular solar panel system includes solar panels mechanically and electrically interconnectable to create a modular solar panel array, and an electrical connection module on each panel, the module having an input connection and an output connection for electrically interconnecting the panels in the solar panel array. A peripheral frame member is disposed about each panel, and includes a first set of receptacles arranged on a back face, and a second set of receptacles arranged along an outside edge. The second set of receptacles are arranged along each side so that the receptacles on one panel align with the receptacles on another panel when placed adjacent one another in a generally planar edge-to-edge manner. A support structure supports the solar panel array, and includes a third set of receptacles that have a size, shape and spacing that correspond to the size, shape and spacing of the first set of receptacles on the back face and are alignable with one another to facilitate mounting of the solar panels to the support structure. Connection devices are configured to interconnect the solar panels to one another and to the support structure.



1. A modular solar panel system, comprising:
a plurality of solar panels that are mechanically and electrically interconnectable to create a modular solar panel array;
an electrical connection module on each panel, the module having an input connection and an output connection for electrically interconnecting the panels in the solar panel array;
a peripheral frame member disposed about each panel, the peripheral frame member including a first set of receptacles arranged on a back face, and a second set of receptacles arranged along an outside edge, wherein the second set of receptacles are arranged along each side so that the receptacles on one panel align with the receptacles on another panel when placed adjacent one another in a generally planar edge-to-edge manner;
a support structure configured to support the solar panel array, the support structure including a third set of receptacles that have a size, shape and spacing that correspond substantially to the size, shape and spacing of the first set of receptacles on the back face and are alignable with one another to facilitate mounting of the solar panels to the support structure; and
connection devices for interconnecting the solar panels to one another and to the support structure.



2. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 wherein the electrical connection modules permit electrically chaining the panels together and permits only one-way, correct-orientation connection of the panels to one another, and have no exposed electrically conductive surfaces.


3. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 wherein the support structure comprises at least one a space frame, a stand and a rack.


4. The modular solar panel system of claim 3 wherein the support structure comprises projections that are sized, shaped, and spaced to align with the first set of receptacles on the back face so that they releasably engage one another in a slide-lock manner.


5. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 wherein the connection devices comprise twist-lock connectors with two lateral stationary posts and a rotatable center “T” post that is pivotally coupled to a locking lever having an over-center cam.


6. The modular solar panel system of claim 5 wherein the twist-lock connectors are configured to releasably engage aligned sets of receptacles on adjacent outside edges of the solar panel frame members for connecting the panels into the solar panel array, and the back face of the solar panel frame members and the support structure to mount the solar panel array on the support structure.


7. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 further comprising one or more battery modules electrically coupled to the electrical connection modules of the solar panels to store electrical energy generated by the solar panels.


8. The modular solar panel system of claim 7 further comprising an inverter module connected to the battery module.


9. The modular solar panel system of claim 8 wherein the inverter module includes a multi-standard socket configured to receive any of a wide variety of electric plug configurations to provide a source of AC electric power.


10. The modular solar panel system of claim 8 wherein the inverter module is configured for use with AC loads and DC loads.


11. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 wherein the first set of receptacles comprise an elongated linear slot with rounded ends and two intermediate circular openings separated by a middle planar slot segment.


12. The modular solar panel system of claim 1 wherein the support structure includes a set of projections having a short stem and a flat head that is receivable through the circular opening in the first set of receptacles so that the panel can be shifted laterally to capture the flat head beneath the end of the slot portion in a slide-lock manner.


13. A modular solar panel system, comprising:
a plurality of solar panels that are mechanically and electrically interconnectable to create a modular solar panel array;
an electrical connection module coupled to each panel, the modules having an input connection and an output connection for electrically interconnecting the panels in the solar panel array;
a frame member disposed about each panel, the frame member including a first set of receptacles arranged on a back face, and a second set of receptacles arranged along an outside edge, so that the second set of receptacles on one panel align with the second set of receptacles on another panel when placed adjacent one another in a generally planar edge-to-edge manner;
a support structure configured to support the solar panel array, the support structure including a third set of receptacles that have a size, shape and spacing that correspond substantially to the size, shape and spacing of the first set of receptacles on the back face and are alignable with one another to facilitate mounting of the solar panels to the support structure;
a plurality of twist-lock connection devices for interconnecting the solar panels to one another and to the support structure;
a battery module electrically connectible to the electrical connection modules; and
an inverter module electrically connectible to the battery module.



14. The modular solar panel system of claim 13 wherein the twist-lock connectors comprise two lateral stationary posts and a rotatable center “T” post that is pivotally coupled to a locking lever having an over-center cam.


15. The modular solar panel system of claim 14 wherein the twist-lock connectors are configured to releasably engage aligned sets of receptacles on adjacent outside edges of the solar panel frame members for connecting the panels into the solar panel array, and the back face of the solar panel frame members and the support structure to mount the solar panel array on the support structure.


16. A modular solar panel system, comprising:
a plurality of solar panels that are interconnectable to create a solar panel array;
each panel having an electrical connection module with an input connection and an output connection for electrically interconnecting the panels in the solar panel array;
each panel also having a frame member with first receptacles on a back face, and second receptacles on an outside edge, so that the second receptacles on one panel align with the second receptacles on another panel when placed adjacent one another in a generally planar edge-to-edge manner;
a support structure configured to support the solar panel array, the support structure including third receptacles corresponding substantially with the first receptacles on the back face and are alignable with one another to facilitate mounting of the solar panels to the support structure;
a plurality of quick-release connection devices that are universally engageable with the first receptacles, and the second receptacles, and the third receptacles for interconnecting the solar panels to one another and to the support structure;
a battery module electrically connectible to the electrical connection modules; and
an inverter module electrically connectible to the battery module. 


