
An innovative, low-density, highly-insulating modular panel for use in many applications and industries. The panel consists of a frame that may be preformed or bent and may be made of rigid or flexible material, and a panel covering comprising at least one pocket of thin, low-density shade fabric that has the capability of sufficiently stretching to surround the frame when the pocket is pulled onto it. The pocket may be then secured, along any previously open end where the frame was inserted, by various fastening devices. The panel covering pocket may have additional features added, as described herein. The panel is durable and cost-effective, and has good solar-control and insulating qualities. It is also a windbreak panel, a noise-reduction panel, an impact protection panel, a water-resistant panel, a fall protection panel, and a pollution-control panel. Two or more panels can be joined to create a structure-protecting panel assembly or system.



1. A system of modular panels for protecting a structure, comprising:
at least one preformed or bent frame; and
at least one covering into which the frame is receivable; where the covering is made from shade fabric and is pocket-shaped, such that the covering has at least one first layer, at least one second layer, a plurality of closed sides adjoining the first layer and the second layer, and at least one open side, such that the covering may be pulled onto the frame via the open side to form a modular panel.



2. The system of modular panels of claim 1 further comprising fasteners located along the open side of the covering such that the open side of the covering may be closed after the covering has been pulled onto the frame.


3. The system of modular panels of claim 2 where the fasteners are hook and loop fasteners or c-clips.


4. The system of modular panels of claim 1 further comprising:
an air space formed within the modular panel by the frame when the covering surrounds the frame; and
insulation material within the air space.



5. The system of modular panels of claim 1 where the frame is comprised of four corner pieces and four side segments, where the four side segments connect to the four corner pieces to form a rectangular frame.


6. The system of modular panels of claim 1 where the frame is comprised of two u-shaped components and two side segments, where the two side segments connect to the two u-shaped components to form a rectangular frame.


7. The system of modular panels of claim 1 where the frame is made of flexible material such that the modular panel may conform to a curved structure to be protected by the modular panel.


8. The system of modular panels of claim 1 where the frame is foldable or collapsible.


9. The system of modular panels of claim 1 further comprising at least one connecting plate assembly, each connecting plate assembly comprising two connecting plates and a plurality of fasteners, such that a connecting plate assembly may be used to join two or more modular panels into a larger unit by sandwiching one corner of each of the two or more modular panels between two connecting plates and joining the connecting plates together with the fasteners.


10. The system of modular panels of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of panel support cushions.


11. The system of modular panels of claim 1 further comprising a fastener for mounting the at least one modular panel to an external surface of a structure.


12. The system of modular panels of claim 1 where the covering further comprises photovoltaic material whereby sunlight striking the modular panel can be converted into electricity.


13. A system of modular panels for protecting a structure, comprising:
at least one preformed or bent frame, where the frame is comprised of two u-shaped components and two side segments, where the two side segments connect to the two u-shaped components to form a rectangular frame; and
at least one covering into which the frame is receivable, where the covering is made from shade fabric, such that the covering has at least one first layer, at least one second layer, a plurality of closed sides adjoining the first layer and the second layer, and at least one open side, such that the covering may be pulled onto the frame via the open side to form a modular panel, and where the covering further comprises at least one of the following features:
the covering is tube-shaped;
the covering further comprises photovoltaic material whereby sunlight striking the modular panel can be converted into electricity;
the covering is made from shade fabric that is water resistant;
the covering is made from shade fabric that is polyethylene combined with shade fabric that is polypropylene;
the covering is made from shade fabric used in combination with commercially-available hail-netting;
the covering further comprises strips or sections of non-stretchy material attached thereto.




14. The system of modular panels of claim 13 further comprising at least one of the following features:
a water misting system or a drip system, such that water may be delivered to the modular panels, providing enhanced cooling to a structure;
an air space formed within the modular panel by the frame when the covering surrounds the frame and insulation material within the air space;
the modular panels are capable of being turned or reversed from time to time to expand the life of the panels.



15. A method of protecting at least one part of a structure with a system of modular panels, comprising:
pulling at least one covering onto at least one preformed or bent frame to form at least one modular panel, where the covering is made from shade fabric and is pocket-shaped, such that the covering has a first layer, a second layer, a plurality of closed sides adjoining the first layer and the second layer, and at least one open side; and
protecting a structure with the at least one modular panel.



16. The method of protecting at least one part of a structure of claim 15, further comprising joining two or more modular panels into a larger unit using at least one connecting plate assembly, where each connecting plate assembly comprises two connecting plates and a plurality of fasteners, where joining two or more modular panels into a larger unit comprises sandwiching one corner of each of the two or more modular panels between two connecting plates and joining the connecting plates together with the fasteners.


17. The method of protecting at least one part of a structure of claim 16, further comprising protecting the structure from potential harm from the connecting plates by inserting a panel support cushion between each connecting plate assembly and the structure.


18. The method of protecting at least one part of a structure of claim 15 further comprising attaching the at least one modular panel to an external surface of the structure.


19. The method of protecting at least one part of a structure of claim 15 where the covering further comprises photovoltaic material, the method further comprises converting sunlight striking the at least one modular panel into electricity.


20. The method of protecting at least one part of a structure of claim 15 where protecting the structure with the at least one modular panel comprises one or more of the following:
reflecting or refracting incoming sunlight;
deflecting wind;
providing impact protection;
providing noise reduction;
providing fall protection;
providing water-resistance;
providing improved pollution-control;
providing energy use reduction in summer or winter months;
providing infrared heat protection; and
creating environmental credits.


