
A supporting plate for mounting a rectangular flat solar module on a flat substrate includes a front edge, a rear edge and a first and a second side edge. At least three parallel trapezoidal profiles are evenly spaced on the supporting plate with respect to each other. The trapezoidal profiles extend continuously from the front edge to the rear edge with a first and a second of the trapezoidal profiles extending respectively along the side edges and a third of the trapezoidal profiles extending centrally on the supporting plate such that the front edge, the rear edge and the side edges enclose a rectangular area that corresponds to a rectangular area of the flat solar module. Each of the trapezoidal profiles include an upper side and continuously increase in height from the front edge to the rear edge so as to form, by the upper sides, an inclined direct bearing surface for the flat solar module. Intermediate areas between the trapezoidal profiles are configured as an accommodating area for a fixed weighting product and as a direct stand area of the supporting plate on the flat substrate, the stand area being between 2 and 3 times as large as the bearing surface.



1. A supporting plate for mounting a rectangular flat solar module on a flat substrate, comprising:
a front edge;
a rear edge;
a first and a second side edge;
at least three parallel trapezoidal profiles evenly spaced on the supporting plate with respect to each other, the trapezoidal profiles extending continuously from the front edge to the rear edge, a first and a second of the trapezoidal profiles extending respectively along the side edges and a third of the trapezoidal profiles extending centrally on the supporting plate such that the front edge, the rear edge and the side edges enclose a rectangular area that corresponds to a rectangular area of the flat solar module, each of the trapezoidal profiles including an upper side and continuously increasing in height from the front edge to the rear edge so as to form, by the upper sides, an inclined direct bearing surface for the flat solar module; and
intermediate areas between the trapezoidal profiles configured as an accommodating area for a fixed weighting product and as a direct stand area of the supporting plate on the flat substrate, the stand area being between 2 and 3 times as large as the bearing surface.



2. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the bearing surface is formed from a rectangular shape of the upper sides and the stand area is formed from a trapezoidal shape of the intermediate areas.


3. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the bearing surface is formed from a trapezoidal shape of the upper sides and the stand area is formed from a rectangular shape of the intermediate areas.


4. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the supporting plate is formed from plastic and stackable within another supporting plate.


5. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the first and second trapezoidal profiles include a vertically-oriented outer side area.


6. The supporting plate according to claim 5, wherein the outer side areas include handhold cutouts.


7. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein each of the trapezoidal profiles include an oblique construction inclined from a head area toward the supporting plate at the rear edge.


8. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the upper sides of the trapezoidal profiles include a longitudinal profile.


9. The supporting plate according to claim 1, further comprising a terminal wall having a height corresponding to a height of the trapezoidal profiles at the rear edge of the supporting plate, the terminal wall extending at least in a region of the trapezoidal profiles.


10. The supporting plate according to claim 9, wherein the terminal includes an oblique construction.


11. The supporting plate according to claim 9, wherein the terminal wall includes airing openings.


12. The supporting plate according to claim 9, wherein the terminal wall extends continuously along the rear edge with a continuous drainage grid.


13. The supporting plate according to claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and second trapezoidal profiles include a head area having an opening.


14. The supporting plate according to claim 1, wherein the rear edge includes a drainage grid at least in a region of the stand area.


15. The supporting plate according to claim 1, further comprising a catwalk extending along the front edge.


16. The supporting plate according to claim 15, wherein the catwalk includes a grid-like construction.


17. The supporting plate according to claim 1, further comprising connecting pieces disposed at the rear edge and connecting bolts disposed at least one of the front edge and a catwalk extending along the front edge such that a plurality of the supporting plates are connectable in columns one behind the other.


18. The supporting plate according to claim 17, wherein two connecting pieces respectively extend from an outer side area of each of the first and second trapezoidal profiles, and two connecting bolts respectively extend from at least one of the catwalk and an outer side area of each of the first and second trapezoidal profiles.


19. The supporting plate according to claim 1, further comprising connecting elements disposed in a region of outer side areas of each of the first and second trapezoidal profiles such that a plurality of the supporting plates are connectable in rows side by side.


20. The supporting plate according to claim 19, wherein the connecting elements include a rail with a dovetail guide.


21. The supporting plate according to claim 19, wherein the connecting elements include a front connecting element disposed in at the front edge and a rear connecting element disposed at the rear edge.


22. A supporting plate panel for mounting rectangular flat solar modules on a flat substrate comprising:
at least two supporting plates disposed adjacent to one another, each supporting plate comprising:
a front edge;
a rear edge;
a first and a second side edge;
at least three parallel trapezoidal profiles evenly spaced on the supporting plate with respect to each other, the trapezoidal profiles extending continuously from the front edge to the rear edge, a first and a second of the trapezoidal profiles extending respectively along the side edges and a third of the trapezoidal profiles extending centrally on the supporting plate such that the front edge, the rear edge and the two side edges enclose a rectangular area that corresponds to a rectangular area of one of the flat solar modules, each of the trapezoidal profiles including an upper side and continuously increasing in height from the front edge to the rear edge so as to form, by the upper sides, an inclined direct bearing surface for the one of the flat solar modules; and
intermediate areas between the trapezoidal profiles configured as an accommodating area for a fixed weighting product and as a direct stand area of the supporting plate on the flat substrate, the stand area being between 2 and 3 times as large as the bearing surface, and

wherein the fixed weighting product includes coarse-grained gravel is disposed in the stand areas of each of the supporting plates.



23. The supporting plate panel according to claim 22, wherein the bearing surfaces are inclined so as to be oriented toward an incident direction of sunlight during operation.


24. The supporting plate panel according to claim 22, wherein the at least two supporting plates are releasably affixed to one another in a row by sliding elements having a bilateral dovetail profile that are disposed in a dovetail guide of rails extending between the at least two supporting plates.


25. The supporting plate panel according to claim 22, wherein the flat solar modules include a frameless solar panel bonded to each of the bearing surfaces.


26. The supporting plate panel according to claim 22, wherein the at least two supporting plates are mounted on the flat substrate so as to be impenetrable. 

