
Some embodiments include power inverters and related methods. Other embodiments of related systems and methods are also disclosed.



1. An apparatus comprising:
a DC source comprising:
a first DC source terminal; and
a second DC source terminal;

a first switch;
a second switch;
a third switch wherein first terminals of the first, second, and third switches are coupled together;
a fourth switch between the first switch and the second DC source terminal;
a fifth switch between the second switch and the second DC source terminal;
a sixth switch between the third switch and the second DC source terminal;
an inductor coupled between the first DC source terminal and the first terminals of the first, second, and third switches;
a power grid port comprising:
a first power grid terminal; and
a second power grid terminal;

a first electrical path between a second terminal of the first switch and the first power grid terminal;
a second electrical path between a second terminal of the second switch and the second power grid terminal;
a capacitor;
a third electrical path through the capacitor and between a second terminal of the third switch and the second power grid terminal;
a second inductor between the first switch and the first power grid terminal and between the fourth switch and the first power grid terminal; and
a second capacitor between the first switch and the second power grid terminal and between the fourth switch and the second power grid terminal;
wherein:
the first, second, and third switches are configured to distribute portions of a DC link current through the apparatus;
the capacitor is larger than the second capacitor;
the inductor is larger than the second inductor;
power ratings of the first and second switches are greater than a power rating of the third switch;
power ratings of the fourth and fifth switches are greater than a power rating of the sixth switch;
at least one of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth switches comprises at least one of a GTO switch, an IGBT switch, a BJT switch, a bipolar transistor switch, a field effect transistor switch, or a MOSFET switch;
the inductor comprises an inductance of between approximately 1 millihenry and approximately 10 millihenries;
the capacitor comprises a capacitance of between approximately 100 microfarads and approximately 200 microfarads; and
the third switch is configured to route an alternating current portion of the DC link current through the capacitor to attenuate a current ripple effect of the DC link current and improve a maximum power point tracking of the apparatus.




2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
a first diode between the first switch and the second inductor and between the first switch and the second capacitor;
a second diode between the second switch and the second power grid terminal;
a third diode between the third switch and the capacitor;
a fourth diode between the fourth switch and the second DC source terminal;
a fifth diode coupled between the sixth switch and the second DC source terminal; and
a sixth diode between the sixth switch and the second DC source terminal.



3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:
the controller is configured to cycle the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth switches at a frequency of between approximately between 5 kilohertz to approximately 20 kilohertz via a pulse width modulation mechanism to maintain the alternating current portion of the DC link current approximately at a target magnitude and approximately at a target phase to thereby provide substantially constant power transfer from the DC source port to the power grid port.



4. An apparatus comprising:
a DC source comprising:
a first DC source terminal; and
a second DC source terminal;

a first switch;
a second switch;
a third switch wherein first terminals of the first, second, and third switches are coupled together;
a first feedback loop from a second terminal of the first switch to the first terminal of the first switch;
a second feedback loop from a second terminal of the second switch to the first terminal of the second switch;
a third feedback loop from a second terminal of the third switch to the first terminal of the third switch;
an inductor coupled between the first DC source terminal and the first terminals of the first, second, and third switches;
a power grid port comprising:
a first power grid terminal; and
a second power grid terminal;

a first electrical path between the first feedback loop and the first power grid terminal;
a second electrical path between the second feedback loop and the second power grid terminal;
a capacitor;
a third electrical path through the capacitor and between the third feedback loop and the second power grid terminal;
a second inductor between the first feedback loop and the first power grid terminal; and
a second capacitor between the first feedback loop and the second power grid terminal;
wherein:
the first, second, and third switches are configured to distribute portions of a DC link current through the apparatus;
the capacitor is larger than the second capacitor;
the inductor is larger than the second inductor;
power ratings of the first and second switches are greater than a power rating of the third switch;
at least one of the first, second, and third switches comprises at least one of a GTO switch, an IGBT switch, a BJT switch, a bipolar transistor switch, a field effect transistor switch, or a MOSFET switch;
the inductor comprises an inductance of between approximately 1 millihenry and approximately 10 millihenries;
the capacitor comprises a capacitance of between approximately 100 microfarads and approximately 200 microfarads; and
the third switch is configured to route an alternating current portion of the DC link current through the capacitor to attenuate a current ripple effect of the DC link current and improve a maximum power point tracking of the apparatus.




5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising:
a first diode coupled between the inductor and the first terminal of the first switch;
a second diode coupled between the inductor and the first terminal of the second switch;
a third diode coupled between the inductor and the first terminal of the third switch;
a fourth diode coupled between the second terminal of the first switch and the second DC source terminal;
a fifth diode coupled between the second terminal of the third switch and the second DC source terminal; and
a sixth diode coupled between the second terminal of the third switch and the second DC source terminal.



6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:
the controller is configured to cycle the first, second, and third switches at a frequency of approximately between 5 to 20 kilohertz via a pulse width modulation mechanism to maintain the alternating current portion of the DC link current approximately at a target magnitude and approximately at a target phase to thereby provide substantially constant power transfer from the DC source port to the power grid port.



7. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising:
first and second diodes coupled in series in the first feedback loop;
third and fourth diodes coupled in series in the second feedback loop; and
fifth and sixth diodes coupled in series in the third feedback loop;
wherein:
the first electrical path couples to the first feedback loop between the first and second diodes;
the second electrical path couples to the second feedback loop between the third and fourth diodes; and
the third electrical path couples to the third feedback loop between the fifth and sixth diodes.




8. A method comprising:
routing power from a DC source to a power grid via a single phase current source inverter; and
attenuating a variable component of the power to improve a maximum power point tracking of the current source inverter.



9. The method of claim 8, wherein:
the steps of routing power and of attenuating the variable component of the power occur simultaneously.



10. The method of claim 8, wherein:
attenuating the variable component of the power comprises at least one of:
reducing a ripple of a DC link current from the DC source to provide a substantially constant power transfer to the power grid, or
maintaining an approximate target magnitude and an approximate target phase of a reactive current of the DC link current to maintain a magnitude of the variable component of the power at or proximate to zero.




11. The method of claim 10, wherein when attenuating the variable component of the power comprises maintaining an approximate target magnitude and an approximate target phase of a reactive current of the DC link current to maintain a magnitude of the variable component of the power at or proximate to zero, the method further comprises:
providing the current source inverter;
wherein providing the current source inverter comprises:
providing an inductor coupled to a switch set;
providing a first DC source terminal of the DC source coupled to the inductor;
providing a first switch of the switch set coupled to a first power grid terminal of the power grid;
providing a second switch of the switch set coupled to a second power grid terminal of the power grid; and
providing a capacitor coupled between a third switch of the switch set and the second power grid terminal of the power grid.




12. The method of claim 11, wherein:
providing the current source inverter further comprises:
providing a second inductor coupled between the first switch and the first power grid terminal; and
providing a second capacitor coupled between the first switch and the second switch, to the second inductor, and to the second power grid terminal.




13. The method of claim 11, wherein:
routing the power from the DC source to the power grid comprises:
configuring the first switch to regulate a first portion of the DC link current between the DC source and the power grid;
configuring the second switch to regulate a second portion of the DC link current between the DC source and the power grid; and
configuring the third switch to regulate the reactive current routed through the capacitor between the DC source and the power grid.




14. The method of claim 11, wherein:
attenuating the variable component of the power comprises:
enabling only one of the first, second, or third switches at a time.




15. The method of claim 14, wherein:
providing the current source inverter further comprises:
providing a fourth switch between the first switch and a second DC source terminal;
providing a fifth switch between the second switch and the second DC source terminal; and
providing a sixth switch between the third switch and the second DC source terminal; and

attenuating the variable component of the power further comprises:
enabling only one of the fourth, fifth, or sixth switches at the time.




16. The method of claim 11, wherein:
maintaining the approximate target magnitude and the approximate target phase of the reactive current comprises:
actuating the switch set to route the reactive current from the second switch to the second power grid terminal via the capacitor.




17. The method of claim 11, wherein:
attenuating the variable component of the power comprises:
controlling control-terminals of the first, second, and third switches of the switch set based on a modulation mechanism comprising at least one of:
a pulse width modulation scheme; or
a space vector modulation scheme.





18. The method of claim 14, wherein:
enabling only one of the first, second, or third switches at the time comprises at least one of:
cycling the switch set at a rate of between approximately 5 kilohertz to approximately 20 kilohertz,
cycling the switch set at a rate between approximately 100 to approximately 500 times faster than a frequency of the power grid, or
enabling the switches of the switch set based on a comparison of a magnitude of a modulation carrier signal and modulation functions for the first, second, and third switches of the switch set.




19. The method of claim 18, wherein when enabling only one of the first, second, or third switches at the time comprises enabling the switches of the switch set based on a comparison of a magnitude of a modulation carrier signal and modulation functions for the first, second, and third switches of the switch set, enabling only one of the first, second, or third switches at the time further comprises:
configuring the modulation functions to regulate cycling of the switches throughout a modulation period that is based on a frequency of the power grid.



20. The method of claim 19, wherein:
the modulation period corresponds to a frequency of between approximately 50 Hertz to approximately 150 Hertz.



21. A bridge circuit comprising:
a DC source port comprising:
a first DC source terminal; and
a second DC source terminal;

a switch set comprising at least three switches coupled together;
an inductor coupled between the first DC source terminal and the switch set;
a power grid port comprising:
a first power grid terminal coupled to a first switch of the switch set; and
a second power grid terminal coupled to a second switch of the switch set; and

a capacitor coupled between a third switch of the switch set and the second power grid terminal;
wherein the first and second DC source terminals are configured to couple the bridge circuit to a DC source.



22. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the switch set is configured to regulate a current routed through the capacitor to restrict a reactive component of a power transferred from the DC source port to the power grid port.



23. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the inductor is coupled to first terminals of the first, second, and third switches;
the capacitor is coupled between second terminals of the second and third switches;
and further comprising:
a first electrical path between a second terminal of the first switch and the first power grid terminal;
a second electrical path between the second terminal of the second switch and the second power grid terminal; and
a third electrical path via the capacitor between the second terminal of the third switch and the second power grid terminal.




24. The bridge circuit of claim 21, further comprising:
a second inductor coupled between the first switch and the first power grid terminal; and
a second capacitor coupled between the first switch and the second switch, to the second inductor, and to the second power grid terminal.



25. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the switch set further comprises:
a first diode coupled between the first switch and the first power grid terminal;
a second diode coupled between the second switch and the second power grid terminal; and
a third diode coupled between the third switch and the capacitor.




26. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the switch set further comprises:
a fourth switch coupled between the first switch and the second DC source terminal;
a fifth switch coupled between the second switch and the second DC source terminal; and
a sixth switch coupled between the third switch and the second DC source terminal.




27. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the DC source port is designed to be coupled to a DC source; and
the DC source comprises a photovoltaic panel.



28. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the switch set is configured to regulate a DC link current between the DC source port and the power grid port;
the first switch is configured to regulate a first portion of the DC link current routed between the DC source port and the first power grid terminal;
the second switch is configured to regulate a second portion of the DC link current routed between the DC source port and the second power grid terminal; and
the third switch is configured to regulate a third portion of the DC link current routed through the capacitor between the DC source port and the second power grid terminal.



29. The bridge circuit of claim 21, further comprising:
a controller coupled to the switch set at control terminals of the at least three switches;
wherein the controller is configured to enable only one of the first, second, or third switches at a time.



30. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
power ratings of the first and second switches are greater than a power rating of the third switch.



31. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the power grid port is designed to be coupled to a power grid comprising at least one of:
a residential power grid; or
a public power grid; and

the bridge circuit is configured to transfer power from the DC source port to the power grid.



32. The bridge circuit of claim 21, wherein:
the bridge circuit comprises a single phase inverter circuit.


