
A method for operating a photovoltaic system provides, with the turning off of the otherwise adjusted regulation to the maximum power point MPP, to make a selective mismatching at the inverter, in order to cause a battery current, which is added to the system current. As a result, an additional energy source to maintain a minimum feed power is achieved during a rapidly changing cloud pattern.



1. A method for operating a photovoltaic system having an inverter at whose input terminals a DC output voltage of the photovoltaic generator is applied and whose output is connectable to a supply network, and having a battery bank connected in parallel to the input terminals, the method comprising:
adjusting a maximum power point of the photovoltaic generator via a regulating element of the inverter;
operating selectively mismatched the photovoltaic generator with the turning off of the adjusted regulation to the maximum power point in order to provoke a discharge current from the battery bank to the input terminals of the inverter if a predefinable minimum power of the photovoltaic generator is not achieved.



2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nominal voltage of the battery bank corresponds to the operating voltage of the photovoltaic generator.


3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mismatching is started:
by first adjusting the voltage point on the typical U/L characteristic of the inverter that corresponds substantially to the actual voltage across the battery bank,
by then closing a disconnect switch arranged in the current path of the connecting line of the battery bank to the inverter, and
by setting the operating point of the regulating element of the inverter to a voltage value smaller than the actual voltage of the battery bank.



4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the current generated by the PV system is measured by a first current measuring sensor and the mismatching is ended when the current measured by the first current measuring sensor exceeds a limit which is predefined depending on the minimum power.


5. The method according to claim 4, wherein after the mismatching ends, the disconnect switch remains closed for recharging the battery bank until a predefinable charge state of the battery bank is determined.


6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a second current measuring sensor is provided in a line between the battery bank and the inverter, and wherein, with a shortfall in a predefined charge state of the battery bank, the connection of a replacement power plant to the supply network is initiated.


7. A device for operating a photovoltaic generator, the device comprising:
an inverter, at whose input terminals a DC output voltage of the photovoltaic generator is applied and whose output is connectable to a supply network;
a battery bank connectable in parallel to the input terminals;
a regulating element of the inverter configured to adjust a maximum power point of the photovoltaic generator;
a disconnect switch via which the battery bank is connected to the inverter; and
a control/regulating device that sets the maximum power point by the regulating element of the inverter to a predefinable voltage and that closes the disconnect switch during a shortfall of a predefined minimum power of the photovoltaic system.



8. The device according to claim 7, wherein a first current measuring sensor is arranged in a current path of the battery bank to the inverter.


9. The device according to claim 7, wherein a second current measuring sensor or a diode is arranged in a current path between the inverter and the photovoltaic generator.


10. The device according to claim 7, wherein the control/regulating device in conjunction with the regulating element of the inverter adjusts the DC voltage at the input terminals such that a predefined current flows out of or to the battery bank.

