
Methods and apparatuses to support photovoltaic (“PV”) modules are described. A saddle bracket has a mounting surface to support one or more PV modules over a tube, a gusset coupled to the mounting surface, and a mounting feature coupled to the gusset to couple to the tube. A grounding washer has a first portion to couple to a support; and a second portion coupled to the first portion to provide a ground path to a PV module. A PV system has a saddle bracket; a PV module over the saddle bracket; and a grounding washer coupled to the saddle bracket and the PV module. Saddle brackets can be coupled to a torque tube at predetermined locations. PV modules can be coupled to the saddle brackets.



1. A saddle bracket to support one or more photovoltaic (“PV”) modules over a tube, comprising:
a mounting surface configured to support the one or more PV modules over the tube,
a first gusset coupled to the mounting surface; and
a mounting feature coupled to the first gusset, the mounting feature configured to couple to the tube.



2. The saddle bracket as in claim 1, wherein each of the first gusset has a first leg and a second leg extending at an angle relative to the mounting surface.


3. The saddle bracket as in claim 1, further comprising
a second gusset coupled to the mounting surface.



4. The saddle bracket as in claim 1, wherein the mounting surface has one or more openings to receive a fastener to couple to the one or more PV modules.


5. The saddle bracket as in claim 4, wherein the one or more openings comprises a slot.


6. The saddle bracket as in claim 4, wherein the one or more openings comprises a round hole.


7. The saddle bracket as in claim 4, wherein the one or more openings comprises at least one slot to receive a fastener to couple to a first PV module and at least one round hole to receive the rivet, the bolt, or the pin to couple to a second PV module.


8. The saddle bracket as in claim 1, wherein the mounting feature has at least one opening to receive a fastener to couple to a predetermined position along the tube.


9. The saddle bracket as in claim 1, wherein the mounting feature coupled to the first gusset is configured to stand the one or more PV modules off the tube.


10. A grounding washer for grounding a photovoltaic (“PV”) module, comprising:
a first portion to couple to a first support; and
a second portion coupled to the first portion to provide a ground path to the PV module, wherein the first portion is along a first plane, and the second portion is along a second plane.



11. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the first portion has a first hole to receive a bolt, pin, or rivet to couple to the first support.


12. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the second portion has a pierce point to provide the ground path to the PV module.


13. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the second portion has a spring tension to provide the ground path to the PV module.


14. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the second portion has a second hole.


15. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the first portion along the first plane is substantially parallel to the second portion along the second plane to form a clip.


16. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the first portion along the first plane is at an angle relative to the second portion along the second plane.


17. The grounding washer as in claim 10, further comprising
a spine connecting the first portion and the second portion.



18. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the first support is a PV strut, wherein the PV strut is coupled to a saddle bracket.


19. The grounding washer as in claim 10, further comprising
a tension indicator coupled to the second portion to indicate a tension to a user.



20. The grounding washer as in claim 10, wherein the first portion and the second portion are portions of a bent piece of a sheet metal.


21. A photovoltaic (“PV”) system, comprising:
a saddle bracket;
a PV module having a frame over the saddle bracket; and
a grounding washer having a first portion coupled to the saddle bracket; and a second portion coupled to the frame of the PV module.



22. A PV system as in claim 21, further comprising
a torque tube positioned underneath the saddle bracket.



23. A PV system as in claim 21, wherein the saddle bracket has at least one gusset, and a mounting surface coupled to the at least one gusset.


24. A PV system as in claim 21, wherein the first portion has a first hole to receive a bolt, pin, or rivet to couple to the saddle bracket.


25. A PV system as in claim 21, wherein the second portion has a pierce point to provide a ground path to the frame of the PV module.


26. A PV system as in claim 21, wherein the second portion has a spring tension to provide a ground path to the frame of the PV module.


27. A PV system as in claim 21, wherein the second portion has a second hole to provide a ground path to the frame of the PV module.


28. A photovoltaic (“PV”) system, comprising:
a torque tube having one or more first location features;
one or more saddle brackets over the torque tube at the one or more first location features; and
one or more PV modules disposed over the one or more saddle brackets.



29. A PV system as in claim 28, wherein an orientation of the saddle brackets over the torque tube relative to each other has a predetermined pattern.


30. A PV system as in claim 28, wherein at least two of the saddle brackets are oriented relative to each other in opposite directions.


31. A PV system as in claim 28, wherein at least one of the saddle brackets is narrower than other saddle brackets.


32. A PV system as in claim 28, wherein at least one of the saddle brackets has at least one gusset, and a mounting surface coupled to the at least one gusset.


33. A PV system as in claim 28, further comprising
one or more grounding washers coupled to the PV modules, wherein at least one of the grounding washers has a first portion to couple to a saddle bracket; and
a second portion coupled to the first portion to provide a ground path to a PV module, wherein the first portion is along a first plane, and the second portion is along a second plane.



34. A method of manufacturing a photovoltaic (“PV”) system, comprising
coupling one or more saddle brackets to a torque tube at one or more predetermined locations; and
coupling one or more PV modules to the one or more saddle brackets.



35. The method as in claim 34, wherein the one or more saddle brackets are coupled to the one or more predetermined locations through one or more openings.


36. The method as in claim 34, wherein at least one of the saddle brackets has a gusset; and a mounting surface coupled to the gusset, and wherein the coupling the one or more PV modules to the one or more saddle brackets comprises
inserting a fastener through an opening in the mounting surface into an opening in a frame of a PV module.



37. The method as in claim 35, wherein at least one of the saddle brackets has a mounting surface, a gusset coupled to the mounting surface, and a mounting feature coupled to the gusset, and wherein the coupling the one or more saddle brackets to the torque tube comprises
inserting a fastener through an opening in the mounting feature into an opening in the torque tube.



38. The method as in claim 35, further comprising
coupling a grounding washer to at least one of the PV modules and at least one of the saddle brackets.


