
Embodiments of the present inventions are directed to systems, devices for use with systems, and method of mounting and retaining solar panels. A solar module mounting system may include: a support mechanism including a support post pivotably attached to a support base, and an attachment module for attaching a solar panel to the support mechanism.



1. A method of installing a solar panel array, the method comprising the steps of:
obtaining a first support mechanism comprising a support post pivotably attached to a support base;
selecting an angular orientation of the support post with respect to the support base;
setting the selected an angular orientation of the support post;
obtaining a first solar panel;
selecting a height on the first support mechanism for attaching the first panel; and
attaching the first panel to the first support mechanism at the selected height.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein the angular orientation of the support post is selected to compensate for a local undulation in a surface on which the first support mechanism is located.


3. The method of claim 2, wherein the height on the first support mechanism for attaching the panel is selected to compensate for the local undulation in the surface on which the first support mechanism is located.


4. The method of claim 3, wherein attaching the first panel to the first support mechanism comprises coupling an attachment module to the first solar panel; and after coupling the attachment module to the first solar panel, coupling the attachment module to the first support mechanism.


5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first support mechanism comprises a support frame coupled to the support post, the support frame comprising:
a first elongated member coupled to the support post and extending from a front end to a rear end along a direction substantially perpendicular to the support post;
a second elongated member extending at an angle to the first elongated member between a front end coupled to the front end of the first elongated member and a rear end, the second elongated member include at least one facility adapted to receive the attachment module to couple the solar panel to the support frame; and
a facility for adjusting the height of the first elongated member relative to the support base to a selected one of a plurality of heights; and
the method further comprising the steps of:
selecting a height of the first elongated member relative to the support base;
setting the height of the first elongated member relative to the support base to the selected height; and
coupling the attachment module to the second elongated member.




6. The method of claim 5, wherein the support frame comprises a facility for adjusting the angle of the second elongated member to the first elongated member to a selected one of a plurality of angles;
the method comprising:
selecting a mounting angle of the solar panel;
setting the angle of the second elongated member to the first elongated member to correspond to the mounting angle of the solar panel;




7. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
obtaining a second solar panel;
attaching the second solar panel to the first support mechanism by coupling an attachment module to the second solar panel; and, after coupling the attachment module to the second solar panel, coupling the attachment module to the first support mechanism.



8. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
obtaining a second support mechanism, the second support mechanism comprising:
a support post pivotably attached to a support base; and
a support frame coupled to the support post, the support frame comprising:
a first elongated member coupled the support post and extending from a front end to a rear end along a direction substantially perpendicular to the support post; and
a second elongated member extending at an angle to the first elongated member between a front end coupled to the front end of the first elongated member and a rear end, the second elongated member include at least one facility adapted to receive a second attachment module to couple the solar panel to the support frame; and

for the second support mechanism:
selecting an angular orientation of the support post with respect to the support base and selecting a height on the first support mechanism for attaching the first panel, wherein at least one of the angular orientation of the support post and the height on the first support mechanism for attaching the first panel is selected to compensate for a local undulation in a surface on which the second support mechanism is located;
setting the selected angular orientation of the support post; and
attaching the first panel to the second support mechanism at the selected height.




9. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
obtaining a second support mechanism, the second support mechanism comprising:
a support post pivotably attached to a support base; and
a support frame coupled to the support post, the support frame comprising:
a first elongated member coupled to the support post and extending from a front end to a rear end along a direction substantially perpendicular to the support post;
a second elongated member extending at an angle to the first elongated member between a front end coupled to the front end of the first elongated member and a rear end, the second elongated member include at least one facility adapted to receive a second attachment module to couple the solar panel to the support frame; and


attaching the front end of the first elongated member of the first support mechanism to the rear end of the first elongated member of the second support mechanism.



10. The method of claim 9, wherein the front end of the first elongated member of the first support mechanism and the rear end of the first elongated member of the second support mechanism are attached using a facility which allows for the relative position and angular orientation of the elongated members to be adjusted; and
further comprising selecting and setting the relative position and angular orientation of the attached elongated members.



11. The method of claim 10, wherein the relative position or angular orientation of the attached elongated members is adjusted to compensate for a variation in change in a slope of the surface underlying the first and second support mechanisms.


12. A method of installing a solar panel array, the method comprising the steps of:
obtaining a first plurality of solar panels;
placing a first plurality of support mechanisms, each comprising a support post pivotably attached to a support base, on a first region of a surface, the first region having a generally flat portion and localized undulations;
for each respective support mechanism in the first plurality:
selecting an angular orientation of the support post with respect to the support base;
setting the selected an angular orientation of the support post;
selecting an attachment height on the first support mechanism for attaching the first panel; and
attaching at least one respective solar panel to the respective support mechanism at the selected height;

wherein the selected angular orientations and the attachment heights are selected to compensate for the local undulations in the first region such that each of the first plurality of panels are positioned with substantially the same orientation relative to the generally flat portion of the surface in the first region.



13. The method of claim 12, wherein the orientation relative to the generally flat portion of the surface in the first region comprises a height of the respective panel relative to the generally flat portion of the surface in the first region.


14. The method of claim 12, wherein the first plurality of panels are each attached to a respective support mechanism while the support mechanism is unattached to any other support mechanisms.


15. The method of claim 14, further comprising attaching each support mechanism in the first plurality of support mechanisms to at least one other support mechanism in the first plurality of support mechanisms.


16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: attaching cross bracing between at least two adjacent support mechanisms in the first plurality of support mechanisms.


17. The method of claim 12, wherein each of the support mechanisms in the first plurality are substantially identical.


18. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
obtaining a second plurality of solar panels;
placing a second plurality of support mechanisms, each comprising a support post pivotably attached to a support base, on a second region of the surface, the first region having a generally flat portion and localized undulations, the second region being adjacent to the first region and having a general slope which differs from a general slope of the first region;
for each respective support mechanism in the second plurality:
selecting an angular orientation of the support post with respect to the support base;
setting the selecting an angular orientation of the support post;
selecting an attachment height on the first support mechanism for attaching the first panel; and
attaching at least one respective solar panel from the second plurality of solar panels to the respective support mechanism at the selected height;

wherein the angular orientations and the attachment heights are selected to compensate for the local undulations in the second region such that each of the second plurality of panels a are positioned with substantially the same orientation relative to the generally flat portion of the surface in the second region.



19. The method of claim 18, further comprising attaching at least one of the support mechanisms of the first plurality with at least one support mechanisms in the second plurality.


20. The method of claim 19, wherein, for each support mechanisms of the first plurality which is attached to a support mechanism in the second plurality:
the support mechanism comprises an attachment facility allows for the relative angular orientation of the support members to be adjusted to one of a plurality of orientations; and
further comprising attaching the support mechanism comprises using the facility to set the relative angular orientation to compensate for the difference in the slopes of the first and second regions.



21. The method of claim 20, wherein each support mechanism of the first and second pluralities of support mechanisms are substantially identical.


22. The method of claim 11, wherein substantially no portion of each of the support mechanisms in the first plurality is located below the surface.


23. The method of claim 22, further comprising driving one or more nails through the at least one of the support mechanisms and the surface to secure the support mechanism to the surface.


24. A solar panel module mounting system component comprising:
support base;
a support post;
a pivot pivotably coupling the support post to the support base; and
a support frame coupled to the support post and comprising a facility for attaching a solar panel module.



25. The component of claim 24, further comprising one or more attachment modules adapted to couple to the solar panel module and to couple to the solar panel module at a selected height and orientation relative to the support base.


26. The component of claim 25, wherein the support frame comprises:
a first elongated member coupled at a substantially right angle to the support post and extending from a front end to a rear end;
a second elongated member extending at an angle to the first elongated member from a front end coupled to the front end of the horizontal member and a rear end, and comprising the facility for attaching a solar panel module; and
a facility for adjusting the height of the first elongated member relative to the support base to a selected one of a plurality of heights.



27. The component of claim 26, further comprising a facility for adjusting the angle of the second elongated member to the first elongated member to a selected one of a plurality of angles.


28. The component of claim 26 wherein the pivot is configured to allow the support post to pivot about at least two transverse axes.


29. The component of claim 28, wherein the pivot is configured to allow the support post to pivot over at range angles from about 0 to at least about 5 degrees from normal to the support base.


30. The component of claim 28, wherein the pivot is configured to allow the support post to pivot over at range angles from 0 to at least 10 degrees from normal to the support base.


31. The component of claim 28, wherein the pivot is configured to allow the support post to pivot over at range angles from 0 to at least 30 degrees from normal to the support base.


32. The component of claim 28
wherein the support base comprises a base pan for receiving and bearing the weight of a ballast, the base pan configured and arranged to receive the ballast in a position such that the ballast does not interfere with a pivoting motion of the support post.



33. The component of claim 28, wherein the front end of the first elongated member comprises a facility for attachment to an adjacent solar panel module mounting system component.


34. The component of claim 28, wherein the facility for attachment of the first elongated member to an adjacent second solar panel module mounting system component is configured to allow adjustment of at least one of the attachment angle and the spacing between the component and the adjacent second solar panel module mounting system component.


35. The component of claim 25, consisting essentially of the support base; the support post; the pivot; the support frame, the one or more attachment modules, and attachment hardware.


36. The component of claim 25, consisting essentially of the support base; the support post; the pivot; the support frame, the one or more attachment modules, one or more cross bracing members adapted to extend from the component to an adjacent support component, and attachment hardware.


37. The component of claim 35, wherein the attachment hardware consists essentially of nuts, bolts, and screws.


38. The component of claim 24, wherein:
the support base, pivot, and support post comprises a first integral unit;
the support frame comprises a second integral unit; and
the attachment module comprises a third integral unit.



39. The component of claim 24, wherein:
the support base, pivot, and support post and the support frame comprise a first integral unit; and
the attachment module comprises a third integral unit.



40. The component of claim 24, wherein, when deployed on a surface, substantially no portion of the component extends through the surface.


41. A solar panel module mounting system comprising:
a first plurality of support mechanisms configured to receive a first plurality of solar panel modules, positioned on a first region of a surface, the first region having a generally flat portion and localized undulations, and each support mechanism comprising:
a support base;
a support post;
a pivot pivotably coupling the support post to the support base allowing the support post to pivot to selected one of a plurality of angular orientations relative to the support base; and
a support frame coupled to the support post at a selected one of a plurality of attachment heights relative to the support base, and comprising a facility for attaching a solar panel module;

wherein, for each of the plurality of support mechanisms, the respective selected angular orientation and attachment height compensates for the localized undulations such that each of the first plurality of solar panel modules is positioned with a substantially uniform height above the generally flat portion of the first region.



42. The system of claim 41, wherein each support mechanism is directly coupled to at least one other support mechanism.


43. The system of claim 42 wherein each solar panel module extends between and is supported by a pair of support mechanisms.


44. The system of claim 37, wherein each of the support mechanisms are substantially identical.


45. The system of claim 38, wherein each support mechanism includes a fixture configured to allow coupling between the support mechanism and another support mechanism and adapted to allow coupling at a selected one of a plurality of relative positions of the coupled mechanisms.


46. The system of claim 41, further comprising:
a second plurality of support mechanisms configured to receive a second plurality of solar panel modules, positioned on a second region of a surface, the second region having a generally flat portion with a slope differing from a slope of the generally flat portion of the first region and localized undulations, and
wherein each support mechanism of the second plurality comprises:
a support base;
a support post;
a pivot pivotably coupling the support post to the support base allowing the support post to pivot to selected one of a plurality of angular orientations relative to the support base; and
a support frame coupled to the support post at a selected one of a plurality of attachment heights relative to the support base, and comprising a facility for attaching a solar panel module;

wherein, for each of the second plurality of support mechanisms, the respective selected angular orientation and attachment height compensates for the localized undulations such that each of the second plurality of solar panel modules is positioned with a substantially uniform height above the generally flat portion of the second region.



47. The system of claim 46, wherein, for each support mechanisms of the first plurality which is attached to a support mechanism in the second plurality:
the support mechanism comprises an attachment facility allowing for the relative angular orientation of the support members to be adjusted to one of a plurality of orientations; and
attaching the support mechanisms comprises using the facility to set the relative angular orientation to compensate for the difference in the slopes of the first and second regions.



48. The system of claim 46, wherein each support mechanism of the first and second pluralities of support mechanisms are substantially identical.


49. The system of claim 46, wherein substantially no portion of each support mechanisms of the first and second pluralities is located below the surface.


50. The system of claim 49, further comprising one or more nails extending through the at least one of the support mechanisms and the surface to secure the support mechanism to the surface. 

