
An apparatus and method relates to managing and controlling a photovoltaic system, especially for the safety, maintenance, alert of theft, and connection failure of the system. It is more specially for cases during the night time when the panel is not generating electricity. The present disclosure provides: an AC panel, an inverter; a communication circuit in a panel inverter to send and receive signals, a control circuit, a communicator and a power line communication method between communicator and panel inverters. The communicator detects an identification of each panel to identify the panels and collect data from each panel. The communicator is connected to the Internet through a web gateway. The apparatus also has a web based managing system to collect data from the communicator, as well as transmit signals to the communicator.



1. A method of detecting a parameter in a solar panel array comprising:
providing a first signal from a first solar panel to a remote entity;
the first solar panel being connected to a second solar panel;
providing a second signal from the second solar panel to the remote entity; and
inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is interrupted to the remote entity.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising connecting a first inverter to the first solar panel and a second inverter to the second solar panel.


3. The method of claim 2, further comprising providing a circuit being connected to monitor an input of the first and the second inverter.


4. The method of claim 3, further comprising monitoring the input of the first and the second inverter for at least one of a power signal, a voltage or a current signal.


5. The method of claim 4, further comprising detecting that the input has been interrupted and inferring that the solar panel has been removed.


6. The method of claim 5, further comprising providing a computing device being connected to the first and the second solar panel, and the computing device inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is interrupted.


7. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing more than two solar panels with each solar panel providing a respective signal to the remote entity.


8. The method of claim 7, further comprising inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one signal from the more than two solar panels is interrupted.


9. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a managing system comprising a processor, a memory and a communication device at the remote entity to infer that the at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when the first or second signal is interrupted.


10. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing an alarm when the first or second signal is interrupted.


11. The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating the first or the second signal to the remote entity via a communication device being connected to a gateway.


12. The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating the first and the second signal via a panel and an AC outlet.


13. The method of claim 1, further comprising not providing the first and second signal at a commencement of operation;
providing the first signal from the first solar panel to the remote entity only when the second solar panel is removed; and
further comprising inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is communicated to the remote entity.



14. An apparatus for detecting a parameter of a solar panel array, the apparatus comprising:
a first solar panel providing a first signal from the first solar panel to a remote entity;
the first solar panel being connected to a second solar panel;
the second solar panel providing a second signal from the second solar panel to the remote entity; and
a device being connected to the first and the second solar panels, the device inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is interrupted to the device.



15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first and the second solar panel each comprise an inverter.


16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein each inverter comprises a monitoring circuit to monitor an input of the inverter.


17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the monitoring circuit monitors the input of the inverter for at least one of a power signal, a voltage or a current signal.


18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the device detects that the input to the respective inverter has been interrupted; and
wherein the device infers that the respective solar panel has been removed.



19. The apparatus claim 18, wherein the device comprises a computing device being connected to the first and the second solar panel, and the computing device inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is interrupted.


20. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising more than two solar panels with each solar panel providing a respective signal to the device.


21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the device infers that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one signal from the more than two solar panels is interrupted.


22. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the device comprises a managing system to infer that the at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when the first or second signal is interrupted.


23. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising an alarm, the device controlling the alarm to provide an indication when the first or second signal is interrupted.


24. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a gateway being connected to the device, the gateway communicating the first or the second signal to the device via a communication device being connected to the gateway.


25. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising communicating the first and the second signal via a panel and an AC outlet.


26. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising not providing the first and second signal at a commencement of operation; and
providing the first signal from the first solar panel to the device only when the second solar panel is removed; and
further comprising inferring that at least one solar panel has been removed from the array when at least one of the first or second signal is communicated to the device.



27. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a gateway being connected to the device, the gateway being connected to a communicator, the communicator being connected to an outlet, the outlet being connected to a panel being connected to a first inverter, which is connected to the first solar panel and further comprising a second inverter being connected to the second solar panel, the second inverter being connected to the first solar panel.


28. A method of safely shutting down operation of a solar panel array comprising:
providing a first solar panel being connected to a first inverter, the first inverter comprising at least one of a control circuit, a power conversion circuit, a monitoring circuit and a communication circuit;
providing a second solar panel being connected to a second inverter, the second inverter comprising at least one of the control circuit, the power conversion circuit, the monitoring circuit and the communication circuit;
providing a managing system being connected to the first and the second solar panels; and
controlling at least one component of the first or the second inverter to shut down operation of the solar panel array.



29. A safety device comprising:
a first solar panel being connected to a first inverter, the first inverter comprising at least one of a control circuit, a power conversion circuit, a monitoring circuit and a communication circuit;
a second solar panel being connected to a second inverter, the second inverter comprising at least one of the control circuit, the power conversion circuit, the monitoring circuit and the communication circuit;
a managing system being connected to the first and the second solar panels; and
the managing system controlling at least one component of the first or the second inverter to shut down operation of the solar panel array.



30. An inverter comprising:
a control circuit, a power conversion circuit, a monitoring circuit and a communication circuit, the communication circuit providing a signal to a remote entity, wherein the remote entity infers a condition when the signal is interrupted. 


