
A junction box and a photovoltaic module having a junction box are described. The junction box includes an upper cover having an upper extending wing, a lower cover having a lower extending wing, and a sealant applying thereon to glue the junction box to a solar panel. The upper cover and the lower cover form a U-shaped clamp to clamp the solar panel. The junction box can be firmly fixed on the solar panel with a fixing member or protrusions coupling to trenches formed on the solar panel.



1. A junction box, comprising:
an upper cover, the upper cover having an upper base portion and an upper extending wing; and
a lower cover, the lower cover having a lower base portion and a lower extending wing, wherein the upper cover and the lower cover form a U-shaped clamp to clamp a solar panel when the upper base portion is coupled to the lower base portion;
wherein a fastener disposed at a contact area between the upper cover and the solar panel, and the lower cover and the solar panel to fix the junction box to the solar panel.



2. The junction box of claim 1, wherein the upper cover further comprises an upper cavity and the lower cover further comprises a lower cavity to form a protective room to protect electronic connections for the solar panel.


3. The junction box of claim 2, further comprising a sealant filled into the protective room formed by the upper cavity and the lower cavity to effectively protect the electronic connections.


4. The junction box of claim 1, wherein the fastener is a sealant applied to the contact area to glue the junction box onto the solar panel.


5. The junction box of claim 4, wherein the sealant is epoxy.


6. The junction box of claim 1, wherein the fastener is a protrusion respectively protruded from the upper cover and lower cover, and the solar panel further comprises a trench defined therein to be engaged with the protrusion.


7. The junction box of claim 1, wherein the fastener is a fixing member to couple the upper extending wing, the solar panel and the lower extending wing together.


8. The junction box of claim 7, wherein the fixing member comprises a bolt and a nut.


9. A photovoltaic module, comprising:
a solar panel having two conductive wires extending from the solar panel;
two terminals respectively connecting to the conductive wires;
two cables respectively connecting to the terminals; and
a junction box mounting on an edge of the solar panel, where the junction box comprises:
an upper cover, the upper cover having an upper base portion and an upper extending wing;
a lower cover, the lower cover having a lower base portion and a lower extending wing, wherein the upper cover and the lower cover are formed a U-shaped clamp to clamp the solar panel when the upper base portion is coupled to the lower base portion; and
a fastener, disposed at a contact area between the upper cover and the solar panel, and the lower cover and the solar panel to fix the junction box to the solar panel.




10. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the upper cover further comprises an upper cavity and the lower cover further comprises a lower cavity to form a protective room to protect electronic connections for the solar panel.


11. The photovoltaic module of claim 10, further comprising a sealant filled into the protective room formed by the upper cavity and the lower cavity to effectively protect the electronic connections.


12. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the fastener is a sealant applied to the contact area to glue the junction box onto the solar panel.


13. The photovoltaic module of claim 12, wherein the sealant is epoxy.


14. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the solar panel further comprises a trench, and the upper cover further comprises a protrusion to couple to the trench.


15. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the solar panel further comprises a trench, and the lower cover further comprises a protrusion to couple to the trench.


16. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the solar panel further comprises two trenches, and the upper cover and the lower cover comprise two protrusions to respectively couple to the trenches.


17. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, further comprising a fixing member to couple the upper extending wing, the solar panel and the lower extending wing together. 

