
A circuit having a plurality of parallel-connected partial circuits for feeding an inverter circuit. A partial circuit comprises an unregulated voltage source with a temporally variable output DC voltage and a synchronous converter having an automatically functioning regulating circuit. The circuit is triggered according to two modes of operation. The first mode of operation is as an upward converter, when the value of the output voltage of the unregulated voltage source exceeds a threshold value, and thus the inverter circuit is supplied with the requisite input voltage. The second mode of operation is as a downward converter, when the value of an output voltage of the unregulated voltage source is below a threshold value, or when there is no output voltage from the unregulated voltage source, in which case a first capacitor is charged from the DC voltage applied to the second terminals.



1. A circuit, having at least one partial circuit for feeding at least one inverter circuit that is connectable to a power grid, wherein each partial circuit comprises:
an unregulated voltage source having a temporally variable output DC voltage;
a synchronous converter having a first capacitor, connected between the first terminals of a switching stage of said synchronous converter and a series circuit of second capacitors at their second terminals; and
in at least one lead line between said first capacitor and said first terminals, at least one coil having a DC voltage source for supplying a regulating circuit for triggering said synchronous converter with a plurality of measuring devices.



2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein there are at least two partial circuits, and said at least two partial circuits are connected in parallel.


3. The circuit of claim 1, wherein
said switching stage of said synchronous converter comprises at least one converter stage which includes a series circuit of first, second, third and fourth power transistors, each with one anti-parallel-connected diode, in which said first power transistor is connected to a second terminal of positive polarity; a center point between said first power transistor and said second power transistor is connected to a first terminal of positive polarity; a center point between a third power transistor and said fourth power transistor is connected to a first terminal of negative polarity; and said fourth power transistor is connected to a second terminal of negative polarity.



4. The circuit of claim 3, wherein
there are at least two converter stages, each having an associated coil disposed on its own core.



5. The circuit of claim 3, wherein
there are at least two converter stages, each having an associated coil, and each said coil is coupled on a common core.



6. The circuit of claim 3, wherein
the center point between said second power transistor and said third power transistor is connected to a center point between said second capacitors.



7. The circuit of claim 1, wherein
said DC voltage source, for its supply, is connected to said first capacitor.



8. The circuit of claim 1, wherein
said DC voltage source, for its supply, is connected to one of said second capacitors.



9. The circuit of claim 1, wherein
said DC voltage source is embodied redundantly and, for its supply, is connected to said first capacitor and one of said second capacitors.



10. A method for triggering the circuit arrangement of claim 1, wherein said synchronous converter has at least two modes of operation:
a first mode of operation as an upward converter, when the value of the output voltage of said unregulated voltage source exceeds a threshold value, and said inverter circuit is thus supplied with the necessary input DC voltage; and
a second mode of operation as a downward converter, when the value of an output voltage of the unregulated voltage source is one of below a threshold value and when no output voltage from said unregulated voltage source is present, in which case said first capacitor is charged from the DC voltage applied to said second terminal;
wherein in both modes of operation, said DC voltage source is charged by at least one of said first capacitor and one of said second capacitors and in turn supplies said regulating circuit, and thus on attaining the threshold value said synchronous converter switches over automatically and directly from said second mode of operation to said first mode of operation.



11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of regulating said mode of operation of said synchronous converter by means of said measuring the voltage and the current at the output of said unregulated voltage source and the voltage at least one of said two second capacitors are measured.


12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of regulating the MPP tracking of an unregulated voltage source equipped as a photovoltaic array. 

