
A solar panel mounting rack includes a plurality of riser components. Each riser component includes a body, a first support member extending from a first end of the body and a second support member extending from a second end of the body. A roof engaging member is fixedly coupled to the first support member of each of the riser components. Each roof engaging member defines an aperture therethrough for securing the riser components to a roof. A plurality of transverse rails is also provided. The second support members of each of the riser components are fixedly coupled to the transverse rails. The riser components are spaced apart relative to one another along a length of the transverse rails. The plurality of transverse rails is positioned substantially parallel with respect to one another and defines at least one gap therebetween for securing a solar panel to the riser components.



1. A solar panel mounting rack, comprising:
a plurality of riser components, each riser component including a body portion, a first support member extending from a first end of the body portion and a second support member extending from a second end of the body portion;
a plurality of roof engaging members, each roof engaging member fixedly coupled to the first support member of one of the riser components, each roof engaging member defining an aperture therethrough for securing the riser components to a roof; and
a plurality of transverse rails, the second support members of each of the riser components fixedly coupled to the transverse rails, the riser components spaced apart relative to one another along a length of the transverse rails, the plurality of transverse rails positioned substantially parallel with respect to one another and defining at least one gap therebetween for securing a solar panel to the riser components.



2. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of riser components are equally spaced along the transverse rails.


3. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the first support members extend normally from the first ends of the body portions in a first direction and wherein the second support members extend normally from the second ends of the body portions in a second, opposite direction.


4. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the roof engaging members are configured and dimensioned for positioning between overlapping roof shingles such that the integrity of the roof shingles is not compromised.


5. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the roof engaging members are spaced relative to one another a pre-determined distance such that each of the roof engaging members is engageable with a roof rafter.


6. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the roof engaging members includes an adjustable portion for adjusting the longitudinal distance between a roof engagement point and a solar panel engagement point.


7. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the riser components includes a bendable portion for adjusting the longitudinal distance between a roof engagement point and a solar panel engagement point.


8. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein two substantially parallel transverse rails interconnect the riser components along a length of the transverse rails.


9. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein each riser component is formed as a single, integrated piece.


10. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the first support member of each riser component is welded to one of the roof engaging members.


11. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the transverse rails are welded to the second support members of each riser component.


12. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the transverse rails are configured and dimensioned to secure at least one solar panel longitudinally along a longitudinal side of the solar panel.


13. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein, when the roof engaging members are engaged to the roof and when the solar panel is engaged to the transverse rails, the solar panel is spaced-apart from the roof.


14. The solar panel mounting rack according to claim 1, wherein the transverse rails define a substantially linear configuration.


15. A solar panel mounting system, comprising:
first and second solar panel mounting racks, each solar panel mounting rack including:
a plurality of riser components, each riser component including a body portion, a first support member extending from a first end of the body portion and a second support member extending from a second end of the body portion;
a plurality of roof engaging members, each roof engaging member fixedly coupled to the first support member of one of the riser components, each roof engaging member defining an aperture therethrough for securing the riser components to a roof; and
a plurality of transverse rails, the second support members of each of the riser components fixedly coupled to the transverse rails, the riser components spaced apart relative to one another along a length of the transverse rails, the plurality of transverse rails positioned substantially parallel with respect to one another and defining at least one gap therebetween for securing a solar panel to the riser components; and

wherein, the first solar panel mounting rack is configured to secure the solar panel thereto toward a first longitudinal side of the solar panel and wherein the second solar panel mounting rack is configured to secure the solar panel thereto toward a second, opposite longitudinal side of the solar panel.



16. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein a length of the body portions of each of the first and second solar panel mounting racks is substantially equal such that the solar panel is substantially parallel with respect to the roof when mounted thereon.


17. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein a length of the body portions of the first solar panel mounting rack is different from a length of the body portions of the second solar panel mounting rack such that the solar panel is angled with respect to the roof when mounted thereon.


18. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the roof engaging members are configured and dimensioned for positioning between overlapping roof shingles such that the integrity of the roof shingles is not compromised.


19. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein at least one of the roof engaging members includes an adjustable portion for adjusting the longitudinal distance between a roof engagement point and a solar panel engagement point.


20. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein at least one of the riser components includes a bendable portion for adjusting the longitudinal distance between a roof engagement point and a solar panel engagement point.


21. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the roof engaging members of each of the first and second solar panel mounting racks are sufficiently spaced relative to one another for engaging at least one roof rafter.


22. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the roof engaging members of each of the first and second solar panel mounting racks are sufficiently spaced relative to one another such that each of the roof engaging members is engageable a roof rafter.


23. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 22, wherein the roof engaging members are spaced such that adjacent roof engaging members are engageable with adjacent roof rafters.


24. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of riser components of each of the first and second solar panel mounting racks are equally spaced along the transverse rails.


25. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the first support members extend normally from the first ends of the body portions in a first direction and wherein the second support members extend normally from the second ends of the body portions in a second, opposite direction.


26. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein two substantially parallel transverse rails interconnect the riser components along a length of the transverse rails.


27. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein each riser component is formed as a single, integrated piece.


28. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the first support member of each riser component is welded to one of the roof engaging members.


29. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the transverse rails are welded to the second support members of each riser component.


30. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the transverse rails are configured and dimensioned to secure at least one solar panel longitudinally along a longitudinal side of the solar panel.


31. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein, when the roof engaging members are engaged to the roof and when the solar panel is engaged to the transverse rails, the solar panel is spaced-apart from the roof.


32. The solar panel mounting system according to claim 15, wherein the transverse rails define a substantially linear configuration.


33. A method of attaching a solar panel to a roof, the method comprising the steps of:
providing first and second solar panel mounting racks, each solar panel mounting rack including:
a plurality of riser components;
a plurality of roof engaging members, each roof engaging member fixedly coupled to one of the riser components, each roof engaging members defining an aperture therethrough for securing the riser components to a roof; and
a plurality of transverse rails, each riser component fixedly coupled to the transverse rails, the riser components spaced apart relative to one another along a length of the transverse rails, the plurality of transverse rails defining at least one gap therebetween for securing a solar panel to the riser components;

attaching each roof engaging member of the first solar panel mounting rack to the roof;
attaching each roof engaging member of the second solar panel mounting rack to the roof such that the first and second solar panel mounting racks are spaced-apart from one another a distance not greater than a width of the solar panel;
attaching the solar panel to the transverse rails of the first solar panel mounting rack toward a first longitudinal side of the solar panel; and
attaching the solar panel to the transverse rails of the second solar panel mounting rack toward a second longitudinal side of the solar panel.



34. The method according to claim 33, further comprising the step of attaching additional solar panels to the solar panel mounting racks such that the solar panels are positioned end-to-end with respect to one another and extend longitudinally along the transverse rails of the first and second mounting racks.


35. The method according to claim 33, wherein a securing member is disposed through the aperture defined within each of the roof engaging members for attaching the solar panel mounting racks to the roof.


36. The method according to claim 33, wherein securing members are disposed through the at least one gap defined between the transverse rails at a plurality of positions along the transverse rails for attaching the solar panel to the solar panel mounting racks.


37. The method according to claim 33, wherein, when the roof engaging members are engaged to the roof and when the solar panel is engaged to the transverse rails, the solar panel is spaced-apart from the roof.


38. The method according to claim 33, wherein a height of each of the first and second solar panel mounting racks is substantially equal such that the solar panel is substantially parallel with respect to the roof when mounted thereon.


39. The method according to claim 33, wherein a height of the first solar panel mounting rack is different from a height of the second solar panel mounting rack such that the solar panel is angled with respect to the roof when mounted thereon.


40. The method according to claim 33, wherein the roof engaging members of the first and second solar panel mounting racks are attached to the roof between overlapping roof shingles such that the integrity of the roof shingles is not compromised.


41. The method according to claim 33, wherein at least one of the roof engaging members of at least one of the first and second solar panel mounting racks includes an adjustable portion for adjusting the longitudinal distance between a roof engagement point and a solar panel engagement point.


42. The method according to claim 41, further comprising the step of adjusting the adjustable portions of the roof engaging members such that the first and second solar panel mounting racks are attached to the roof between overlapping roof shingles

