
Photovoltaic cells may be distributed upon an inner surface of a perimeter of a tubular structure. The tubular structure may be installed in the roof of a habitable or uninhabitable structure to provide low-profile solar energy.



1. A transducer, comprising:
a tubular structure having a first end, a second end, a length extending between the first and the second ends, and a perimeter wall that forms a closed surface over a least a portion of the length of the tubular structure and which separates an interior of the tubular structure from an exterior thereof at least along the portion of the length;
a light transmissive cover positioned to at least partially cover the first end of the tubular structure to prevent ingress of precipitation into the interior of the tubular structure while transmitting at least some wavelengths of light therein; and
a plurality of photovoltaic cells disposed within the interior of the tubular structure along at least the portion of the length of the tubular structure and oriented to receive at least a portion of the light transmitted via the light transmissive cover.



2. The transducer of claim 1, further comprising:
a light transmissive member positioned at least proximate the second end of the tubular structure to at least partially pass the light transmitted via the light transmissive cover out from the interior of the tubular structure.



3. The transducer of claim 1, further comprising:
a reflective member that is at least partially reflective of the at least some wavelengths of light, the reflective member positioned at least proximate the second end of the tubular structure to at least partially reflect the light transmitted via the light transmissive cover back towards the photovoltaic cells.



4. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the cover is convex in a direction that points outward from the first end of the tubular structure.


5. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the light transmissive cover is a diffusive lens that scatters the light that the light transmissive cover transmits into the interior of the tubular structure.


6. The transducer of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the tubular structure has a polygonal cross-section having a number of flat sections.


7. The transducer of claim 6 wherein the photovoltaic cells are carried by the flat sections of an inner surface of the tubular structure.


8. The transducer of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the tubular structure has a hexagonal cross-section and a straight longitudinal axis.


9. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the light transmissive cover is coupleable to the tubular structure, and further comprising:
a flange that extends beyond the perimeter wall of the tubular structure when the light transmissive cover is coupled to the tubular structure.



10. The transducer of claim 1, further comprising:
an exhaust port adaptable to a ventilation device, the ventilation device to remove moisture from the tubular structure.



11. The transducer of claim 10 wherein the ventilation device is a passive fan.


12. An energy conversion system installed in a structure having a roof and an interior, the energy conversion comprising:
a tubular structure having a first end, a second end, a length extending between the first and the second ends, and a perimeter wall, at least the first end of the tubular structure extending from a portion of the roof of the structure;
a light transmissive cover positioned to at least partially cover the first end of the tubular structure to prevent ingress of precipitation into the interior of the structure while transmitting at least some wavelengths of light therethrough; and
a plurality of photovoltaic cells coupled to the tubular structure and oriented to receive at least a portion of the light transmitted via the light transmissive cover.



13. The energy conversion system of claim 12 wherein the perimeter wall of the tubular structure forms a closed surface over a least a portion of the length of the tubular structure which separates an interior of the tubular structure from an exterior thereof.


14. The energy conversion system of claim 12 wherein the structure is a habitable structure.


15. The energy conversion system of claim 14 wherein the first end of the tubular structure extends vertically from the portion of the roof.


16. The energy conversion system of claim 14 wherein the habitable structure includes at least one room and the second end of the tubular structure is coupled to provide light into the room of the habitable structure.


17. The energy conversion system of claim 16, further comprising:
a light transmissive member positioned at least proximate the second end of the tubular structure to at least partially pass the light transmitted via the light transmissive cover out from the interior of the tubular structure into the room of the habitable structure.



18. The energy conversion system of claim 13 wherein at least a portion of the tubular structure has a polygonal cross-section having a number of flat sections and the photovoltaic cells are carried by the flat sections of an inner surface of the tubular structure.


19. The energy conversion system of claim 13 wherein the tubular structure includes at least two distinct segments that have been joined together.


20. The energy conversion system of claim 13, further comprising:
at least one flange that extends beyond the perimeter wall of the tubular structure when the light transmissive cover is coupled to the tubular structure; and
at least one piece of flashing positioned between at least the portion of the length of the tubular structure and the portion of the roof of the structure.



21. A method of installing photovoltaic cell system in a structure having a roof, the method comprising:
providing a tubular structure having a first end, a second end, a passage extending between the first and the second ends, a length extending between the first end and the second end, and a plurality of photovoltaic cells distributed in the passage of the tubular structure;
mounting the tubular structure to the structure such that at least a portion of the first end of the tubular structure extends out of the structure and at least a portion of the second end of the tubular structure extends to an interior of the structure; and
positioning a light transmissive cover proximate to the first end of the tubular structure to at least partially cover the first end.



22. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
installing flashing between the tubular structure and the roof of the structure, wherein the structure is a habitable structure.



23. The method of claim 22, further comprising:
positioning the second end of the tubular structure to transmit sunlight from the interior of the tubular structure to a room in the habitable structure.


