
A method of mounting a plurality of solar panel carriers, which comprise one or more solar panels mounted thereon, to a support structure is described. Mounting is performed by first placing a solar panel carrier onto the support structure at a first position along the support structure and advancing that solar panel carrier on the support structure to allow a second solar panel carrier to be placed on the support structure behind it. The second solar panel carrier is placed on the support structure and advanced into contact with the first solar panel carrier and both can be advanced together along the support structure. Additional solar panel carriers can be placed on the support structured and advanced in the same fashion. Single and multiple solar panel carriers are also described.



1. A method for mounting a solar panel carrier on a support structure, the method comprising:
placing a first solar panel carrier having at least one solar panel mounted thereon onto the support structure;
advancing the first solar panel carrier along the support structure.



2. The method of claim 1, further including:
placing a second solar panel carrier having at least one solar panel mounted thereon on the support structure; and
advancing the second solar panel carrier along the support structure.



3. The method of claim 2, further including:
advancing one of the first or second solar panel carriers to contact the other of the first and second solar panel carriers.



4. The method of claim 3, further including:
further advancing the contacted first and second solar panel carriers along the support structure in tandem.



5. The method of claim 3, wherein advancing the first and second solar panel carriers to be in contact with each other causes a first electrical connector on an outside frame of the solar panel first carrier to engage a respective second electrical connector on an outside frame of the second solar panel carrier.


6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first solar panel carrier is placed on the support structure at a first location along the support structure and advanced towards a second location along the support structure.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein the support structure comprises spaced parallel rails


8. The method of claim 7, wherein each solar panel carrier comprises attachment structures for mounting the solar panel carrier to the spaced parallel rails and permitting the solar panel carrier to be advanced along the rails.


9. The method of claim 8, wherein the acts of advancing comprise sliding the first or second solar panel carrier along the rails.


10. The method of claim 9, wherein the attachment structures comprise rollers to facilitate sliding of the solar panel carriers along the rails.


11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first solar panel carrier has a single solar panel mounted thereon.


12. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing, solar panel carriers onto the support structure one after another and advancing the solar panel carriers already mounted on the support structure by pushing the last mounted solar panel carrier against a previously mounted solar panel carrier so that all carriers placed on the support structure advance along the support structure.


13. The method of claim 1, wherein the placing and advancing are performed by an automated system.


14. The method of claim 1, wherein the placing and advancing are done manually.


15. The method of claim 12, wherein said steps of placing and advancing are performed to fill each of a plurality of rows of a field installation.


16. A solar panel mounting apparatus, comprising:
a carrier for holding one solar panel; and
an attachment structure on the carrier for mounting the carrier to a support structure and allowing the carrier to be moved relative to the support structure.



17. A mounting apparatus as in claim 16, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of spaced parallel rails and the attachment structures include rollers that facilitate the carrier sliding along the spaced parallel rails.


18. A mounting apparatus as in claim 16, wherein the carrier includes a recessed area for holding the solar panel therein and the recessed area has an associated engagement mechanism for engaging the solar panel to hold it within the recessed area.


19. A mounting apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the recessed area has an electrical connector therein for connection with an corresponding electrical connector on the solar panel, the electrical connector being electrically connected to first and second engageable electrical connectors positioned on opposite sides of a frame of the carrier.


20. A mounting apparatus as in claim 16 further including first and second engaging structures positioned on opposite sides of a frame of the carrier so that adjacent carriers are engaged with each other when contacted together. 

