
A startup self-diagnostic apparatus for an electrical storage system including an electrical storage device, a charge and discharge switch device disposed to be connected to the electrical storage device, an electrical storage device breaker disposed between the electrical storage device and the charge and discharge switch device, and a load side breaker disposed between the charge and discharge switch device and an external load comprises a state monitoring unit for the electrical storage device breaker, a state monitoring unit for the load side breaker, a converter diagnosing unit, a switching device diagnosing unit, and an electrical storage device monitoring unit, for diagnosing peripheral diagnostic items which may be diagnosed without using the electrical storage device.



1. A self-diagnostic apparatus for an electrical storage system comprising an electrical storage device, a charge and discharge switch device disposed so as to be connected to the electrical storage device, and an electrical storage device breaker disposed between the electrical storage device and the charge and discharge switch device, the self-diagnostic apparatus comprising:
a peripheral item diagnosing unit for diagnosing peripheral diagnostic items after the electrical storage device breaker is brought into an interrupted state.



2. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 1, further comprising:
a display unit for displaying that the electrical storage device breaker may be brought into a connected state when a result of diagnosing the peripheral diagnostic items is normal.



3. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 1, further comprising:
a usage state diagnosing unit for diagnosing the electrical storage apparatus in a usage state after the electrical storage breaker is brought into a connected state.



4. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 3, wherein
the electrical storage system includes a load side breaker disposed between the charge and discharge switch device and an external load,
the self-diagnostic apparatus further comprises;
an initialization setting unit that initializes the electrical storage system,
a state monitoring unit for the electrical storage device breaker that monitors the connected state of the electrical storage device breaker, and
a state monitoring unit for the load side breaker that monitors a connected state of the load side breaker.



5. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage device according to claim 4, wherein
the state monitoring unit for the electrical storage device breaker interrupts the electrical storage device breaker upon detection of the connected state which is an energized state of the electrical storage device breaker, while the peripheral diagnostic items are being diagnosed by the peripheral item diagnosing unit, and
the state monitoring unit for the load side breaker interrupts the load side breaker upon detection of the connected state which is an energized state of the load side breaker, while the peripheral diagnostic items are being diagnosed by the peripheral item diagnosing unit, and while a diagnosis is being conducted by the usage state diagnosing unit with the electrical storage device breaker having been brought into the connected state.



6. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage device according to claim 4, wherein
the electrical storage system uses, as the power source, an external commercial power source, and
the peripheral item diagnosing unit includes a converter diagnosing unit for diagnosing whether or not an action of an AC/DC converter for converting alternating current power of the external commercial power source into a direct current power for charging is normal.



7. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 4, wherein
the electrical storage system is connected to a photoelectric conversion module, and
the peripheral item diagnosing unit includes a switching device diagnosing unit for diagnosing whether or not an action of a switching device is normal, the switching device that changes a connected state of a plurality of photovoltaic power generation modules constituting the photoelectric conversion module to switch an output voltage and to change an output destination of the photoelectric conversion module.



8. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 4, wherein
the usage state diagnosing unit includes an electrical storage device diagnosing unit that diagnoses whether or not a state of the electrical storage device is normal.



9. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 8, further comprising:
a switch diagnosing unit that diagnoses whether or not an action of the charge and discharge switch device is normal in the connected state of the electrical storage device breaker when a result diagnosed by the electrical storage device diagnosing unit is normal.



10. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 3, further comprising:
a display unit for displaying, when a result of the self-diagnosis at startup time is abnormal, a content of the diagnosis with respect to which the abnormal result is obtained.



11. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 10, wherein
the display unit displays, when a result diagnosed by the electrical storage device diagnosing unit is normal, that the electrical storage device breaker is in a connectable state.



12. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 10, wherein
the display unit displays, when a result diagnosed by the switch diagnosing unit is normal, that the load side breaker is in a connectable state.



13. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 9, wherein
the switch diagnosing unit diagnoses, based on a voltage between both terminals of the charge and discharge switch device, whether or not an action of the charge and discharge switch device is normal.



14. The self-diagnostic apparatus for the electrical storage system according to claim 13, wherein
the charge and discharge switch device includes a discharge switch connectively disposed between the electrical storage device and the load to perform discharge from the electrical storage device to an external load; and
the switch diagnosing unit
provides an off command to the discharge switch, and
detects a voltage between both terminals of the discharge switch in response to the off command, determines the action of the discharge switch as being normal when the detected voltage between both terminals exceeds a predetermined range, further detects, when the detected voltage between both terminals lies within the predetermined range, a flow of a load current passed between the discharge switch and the load, and determines the action of the discharge switch as being normal when the load current is not detected, or determines the action of the discharge switch as being abnormal when the load current is detected. 



