
Solar panel mounting frame assemblies are provided, as well as methods of stacking and transporting the same. The solar panel mounting frame assemblies include a first set of bars that are located adjacent to a top surface of a second set of bars. A bottom surface of each of the bars included within the second set of bars have at least one notch, which is configured to receive a bar included within a first set of bars of a second solar panel mounting frame assembly.



1. A solar panel mounting frame assembly, which comprises a first set of bars that are located adjacent to a top surface of a second set of bars, wherein a bottom surface of each of the bars that comprise the second set of bars includes a notch, wherein the notch is configured to receive a bar included within a first set of bars of a second solar panel mounting frame assembly.


2. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 1, wherein the first set of bars is positioned approximately perpendicular to the second set of bars.


3. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 1, wherein the notch comprises three sides.


4. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 3, wherein the second set of bars comprise a rectangular cross-section.


5. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 1, wherein the first set of bars is positioned approximately perpendicular to the second set of bars.


6. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 5, wherein the notch comprises three sides.


7. The solar panel mounting frame assembly of claim 6, wherein the second set of bars comprise a rectangular cross-section.


8. A method of stacking and transporting solar panel mounting frame assemblies, which comprises placing a first solar panel mounting frame, which comprises a first set of bars that are located adjacent to a top surface of a second set of bars, on top of a second solar panel mounting frame, wherein:
(a) a bottom surface of each of the bars that comprise the second set of bars of the first solar panel mounting frame includes a notch that is configured to receive a bar included within a first set of bars of the second solar panel mounting frame; and
(b) the first solar panel mounting frame is positioned on top of the second solar panel mounting frame such that the notch receives the bar included within the first set of bars of the second solar panel mounting frame.



9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first set of bars of the first solar panel mounting frame is positioned approximately perpendicular to the second set of bars of the first solar panel mounting frame.


10. The method of claim 8, wherein the notch comprises three sides.


11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first set of bars and second set of bars of the first solar panel mounting frame and the second solar panel mounting frame comprise a rectangular cross-section. 

