
Systems, methods, and devices are presented for mitigating arc fault events in a photovoltaic system. An aspect of this disclosure is directed to a photovoltaic system for generating electrical power. The photovoltaic system includes one or more solar panels, and one or more shuttering assemblies, each of which is configured to selectively limit the quantity of light received by one or more of the solar panels. One or more sensing devices detect characteristics of an arc fault event in the photovoltaic system, and output signals indicative thereof. A control module is operatively connected to the shuttering assemblies and the sensing devices. The control module is configured to direct the one or more shuttering assemblies to reduce the quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels in response to the output signals indicating there is an arc fault event in the photovoltaic system.



1. A photovoltaic system for generating electrical power, the photovoltaic system comprising:
one or more solar panels each including at least one photovoltaic cell;
one or more shuttering assemblies each configured to selectively limit a quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels;
one or more sensing devices each operable to detect characteristics of an arc fault event in the photovoltaic system and output a signal indicative thereof; and
a control module operatively connected to the one or more shuttering assemblies and to the one or more sensing devices, the control module being configured to direct the one or more shuttering assemblies to reduce the quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels in response to the output signals indicating there is an arc fault event.



2. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, further comprising:
an inverter; and
a combiner box electrically connecting the one or more solar panels to the inverter, the combiner box including one or more electrical switches each configured to selectively disconnect at least one of the one or more solar panels from the inverter,
wherein the control module is further configured to direct the one or more shuttering assemblies to reduce the quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels, or to direct at least one of the one or more electrical switches to selectively disconnect at least one of the one or more solar panels from the inverter, or both, in response to the output signals indicating there is an arc fault event.



3. The photovoltaic system of claim 2, further comprising a manual override feature configured to selectively open all of the electrical switches in the combiner box, close all of the shuttering assemblies, and turn off the inverter.


4. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, further comprising an inverter electrically connected to the one or more solar panels, wherein the control module is configured to turn off the inverter, or direct the one or more shuttering assemblies to reduce the quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels, or both, in response to the output signals indicating there is an arc fault event.


5. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more solar panels includes a plurality of solar panels, and wherein the control module is further configured to determine if the arc fault event occurred relative to one or ones of the plurality of solar panels and responsively direct the one or more shuttering assemblies to only reduce the quantity of light received by the determined one or ones of the plurality of solar panels.


6. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the control module is further configured to communicate an indication informing a user of the arc fault event and an indication providing a location of the arc fault event.


7. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more shuttering assemblies each includes an elongated opaque sheet movable between a first position, whereat the elongated sheet substantially uncovers a light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels, and a second position, whereat the elongated sheet substantially covers the light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels.


8. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more shuttering assemblies each includes:
a substantially transparent container covering at least a portion of a light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels;
a reservoir holding a substantially opaque fluid; and
a fluid conduit fluidly coupling the reservoir to the container such that the substantially opaque fluid is transferrable between the reservoir and the container.



9. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more shuttering assemblies each includes an electrically switchable glass panel covering at least a portion of a light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels, the electrically switchable glass panel having a variable opacity changeable with the application of a voltage to the electrically switchable glass panel.


10. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more shuttering assemblies each includes a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel covering at least a portion of a light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels, the LCD panel having a variable opacity changeable with the application of an electric field to the LCD panel.


11. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more shuttering assemblies includes one or more slats operable to pivot between a first orientation, whereat the slats substantially uncover a light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels, and a second orientation, whereat the slats substantially cover the light-receiving surface of the at least one of the one or more solar panels.


12. A method of mitigating an arc fault event in a photovoltaic system with one or more solar panels each including at least one photovoltaic cell, the method comprising:
monitoring system characteristics, including a voltage or a current, or both, at one or more locations within the photovoltaic system;
determining if an arc fault event occurred within the photovoltaic system by applying arc detection algorithm rules to the monitored system characteristics; and
in response to determining there is an arc fault event within the photovoltaic system, reducing the quantity of light received by at least one of the one or more solar panels.



13. The method of claim 12, further comprising, in response to determining that an arc fault event occurred within the photovoltaic system, informing a user the arc fault event occurred, a type of the arc fault event, a location of the arc fault event within the photovoltaic system, or system components affected by the arc fault event, or any combination thereof.


14. The method of claim 12, wherein the reducing the quantity of light includes positioning an elongated sheet across the at least one of the one or more solar panels so as to cover at least a portion of a light-receiving surface thereof.


15. The method of claim 12, wherein the reducing the quantity of light includes transferring a substantially opaque fluid from a reservoir through a fluid conduit to a substantially transparent container covering at least a portion of a light-receiving face of the at least one of the one or more solar panels.


16. The method of claim 12, wherein the reducing the quantity of light includes increasing an opacity of an electrically switchable glass panel covering at least a portion of a light-receiving face of the at least one of the one or more solar panels.


17. The method of claim 12, wherein the reducing the quantity of light includes increasing an opacity of a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel covering at least a portion of a light-receiving face of the at least one of the one or more solar panels.


18. The method of claim 12, wherein the reducing the quantity of light includes positioning one or more slats across the at least one of the one or more solar panels so as to substantially cover at least a portion of a light-receiving surface thereof.


19. The method of claim 12, wherein the photovoltaic system includes a combiner box electrically connecting the one or more solar panels to an inverter, the combiner box including one or more electrical switches each configured to selectively disconnect at least one of the one or more solar panels from the inverter, wherein the method includes, in response to determining there is an arc fault event within the photovoltaic system, reducing the quantity of light received by the solar panels, opening all of the electrical switches in the combiner box, or turning off the inverter, or any combination thereof.


20. A method of mitigating arc fault events in a photovoltaic (PV) system, the PV system including a plurality of solar panels each including at least one photovoltaic cell, and a combiner box selectively electrically connecting the plurality of solar panels to an inverter, the method comprising:
continuously monitoring system characteristics, including a voltage and a current associated with the PV system, at multiple locations within the PV system;
detecting PV panel electrical characteristics;
detecting inverter characteristics;
detecting network impedance characteristics;
determining if an arc fault event occurred within the photovoltaic system by applying arc detection algorithm rules to the monitored system characteristics, the detected PV panel electrical characteristics, the detected inverter characteristics, and the detected network impedance characteristics; and
in response to determining there is an arc fault event within the photovoltaic system, substantially eliminating the light received by the plurality of solar panels, turning off the inverter, or electrically disconnecting the plurality of solar panels from the inverter via the combiner box, or any combination thereof. 


