
A photovoltaic system includes solar cells and photovoltaic inverters configured to convert direct current generated by the solar cells to alternating current. Grid voltage at the point of interconnection (POI) of the photovoltaic system and the power grid is measured and compared to a setpoint. A control signal is generated based on the measured grid voltage. The control signal is provided to the photovoltaic inverters. The control signal is adjusted to cause the photovoltaic inverters to generate or absorb reactive power to respond to transient grid voltage changes.



1. A method of automatically regulating voltage generated by a photovoltaic system, the method comprising:
measuring voltage delivered by a photovoltaic system at a point of interconnection (POI) with a power grid to generate a measured grid voltage;
comparing the measured grid voltage to a reference voltage, the reference voltage indicating a setpoint voltage for the POI;
generating an inverter reference voltage based on the comparison of the measured grid voltage to the reference voltage;
presenting the inverter reference voltage to a photovoltaic inverter at the location of the photovoltaic inverter, the photovoltaic inverter converting alternating current generated by solar cells to direct current for delivery to the power grid; and
adjusting the inverter reference voltage to respond to transient changes to the measured grid voltage.



2. The method of claim 1 wherein the inverter reference voltage is generated by a compensator in accordance with a control scheme.


3. The method of claim 2 wherein the control scheme comprises a proportional-integral compensator.


4. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
limiting a rate of change of the inverter reference voltage.



5. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
limiting the inverter reference voltage based on a comparison of reactive power generated by the photovoltaic inverter against reactive power generated by other photovoltaic inverters in the photovoltaic system.



6. The method of claim 1 wherein the solar cells comprise backside contact solar cells mounted in solar panels.


7. The method of claim 1 wherein the inverter reference voltage is provided to the photovoltaic inverter by way of registers transmitted over a data communications network.


8. The method of claim 1 wherein the inverter reference voltage is adjusted to cause the photovoltaic inverter to absorb reactive power when the measured voltage indicates that the grid voltage is above a threshold voltage.


9. The method of claim 1 wherein the inverter reference voltage is adjusted to cause the photovoltaic inverter to generate reactive power when the measured voltage indicates that the grid voltage is below a threshold voltage.


10. A photovoltaic system comprising:
a plurality of solar cells;
a plurality of photovoltaic inverters configured to convert direct current generated by the plurality of solar cells to alternating current; and
a plant controller configured to adjust an inverter reference voltage based on a measured voltage measured at a point of interconnection (POI) of a photovoltaic system with a power grid, and to provide the inverter reference voltage to a photovoltaic inverter in the plurality of photovoltaic inverters to adjust a reactive power output of the photovoltaic inverter and respond to a changing grid voltage at the POI.



11. The photovoltaic system of claim 10 further comprising a meter configured to measure the measured voltage at the POI.


12. The photovoltaic system of claim 10 further comprising a plurality of switches providing data communication links between the plant controller and the plurality of photovoltaic inverters.


13. The photovoltaic system of claim 10 wherein the plant controller is configured to limit a rate of change of the inverter reference voltage.


14. The photovoltaic system of claim 10 wherein the plant controller provides the inverter reference voltage to the photovoltaic inverter in digital form over a data communications network.


15. The photovoltaic system of claim 10 wherein the plant controller is configured to limit the inverter reference voltage based on a comparison of reactive power generated by the photovoltaic inverter and reactive power generated by other photovoltaic inverters in the plurality of photovoltaic inverters.


16. A method of automatically regulating voltage generated by a photovoltaic system, the method comprising:
measuring voltage provided by a photovoltaic system to a power grid to generate a measured voltage;
generating a control signal to control operation of a photovoltaic inverter, the control signal being generated based on the measured voltage; and
adjusting the control signal to adjust a reactive power output of the photovoltaic inverter in response to a change in the measured voltage.



17. The method of claim 16 wherein adjusting the control signal comprises:
adjusting the control signal to make the photovoltaic inverter absorb or export reactive power based on a difference between the measured voltage and a reference voltage.



18. The method of claim 16 wherein the control signal comprises a voltage signal provided to the photovoltaic inverter at a location of the photovoltaic inverter.


19. The method of claim 16 wherein the measured voltage is measured at a point of interconnection of the photovoltaic system with the power grid.


20. The method of claim 16 wherein the photovoltaic inverter converts direct current generated by backside contact solar cells to alternating current.

