
A solar energy collector with comprehensive effects. The collector is mounted on a mounting surface (5) of a building or the ground. The collector includes an external controller (4) and a support frame (13) disposed on the mounting surface. Windshields (21) with air openings (22) are disposed around the support frame (13). An energy collecting unit comprises a pipeline system disposed on underside of the support frame (13) and modularized energy collecting boards disposed on upper-side of the support frame. A water collecting unit comprises a modularized water collecting slot (31), a water collecting pipe (32) and a water collecting tank (33) that are disposed under or beside the support frame (13). An energy store unit comprises an insulation water tank and an electrical energy store system. The functions of solar power photovoltaic generation, water heating by solar energy, buildings insulation and rainwater collection can be achieved.



1. A solar energy collector with comprehensive effects, which is mounted on a mounting surface of a building or ground, comprising:
an external controller;
a support frame disposed on the mounting surface;
an energy collecting unit, comprising a pipeline system disposed on an underside of the support frame, modularized energy collecting boards with functions of solar power photovoltaic generation and heating water with solar energy, and the modularized energy collecting boards disposed on an upper-side of the support frame;
a water collecting unit, comprising a modularized water collecting slot, a water collecting pipe and a water collecting tank which are disposed under or beside the support frame; and
an energy store unit, comprising an insulation water tank and an electrical energy store system.



2. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 1, wherein, the support frame is a combinable grid architecture; the modularized energy collecting boards are disposed in the support frame; and a number of fastening legs extend integrally from the support frame, facing the mounting surface, for fixing the support frame on the mounting surface.


3. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 1, wherein, the modularized energy collecting board is a hollow and multilayer panel; the multilayer panel has a lower plate in the form of a planar basement of plastic or glass; the multilayer panel has an upper plate in the form of a solar power photovoltaic plate, glass plate or thermal conductive metal plate; and a hollow interlayer is formed between the upper plate and the lower plate by once moulding or by adhering along peripheries of the upper plate and the lower plate with a heat insulation sealing strip.


4. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 3, wherein, at least one solar power photovoltaic cell is embedded by means of an intermediate glass plate at an upper-side of the hollow interlayer and below the upper plate of the energy collecting board; and the modularized energy collecting board is connected to the electrical energy store system.


5. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 3, wherein, a thermal insulating layer is further disposed below the lower plate of the modularized energy collecting board.


6. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 3, wherein, the hollow interlayer of the energy collecting board is provided with a water-intake pipe and a water-outtake pipe in two opposite directions respectively, the pipes pass through the hollow interlayer and communicate with the pipeline system.


7. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 1, wherein, the pipeline system is disposed inside the support frame and comprises a main water-outlet pipe, a main water-inlet pipe and several branch pipes; the two main pipes are connected with a water-inlet pipe and a water-outlet pipe of the insulation water tank respectively; water-intake pipes and water-outtake pipes of the modularized energy collecting boards are connected with corresponding branch pipes; and the modularized energy collecting boards are connected in parallel or series between the two main pipes.


8. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 7, wherein, each of the water-intake pipes of the modularized energy collecting boards is provided with a pressure sensor and the main water-inlet pipe is provided with a magnetic valve; and all pressure sensors and the magnetic valve one way valves are connected with the controller.


9. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 1, wherein, the modularized water collecting slot comprises an impurity collector, a filter plate, a rainwater collecting board, a junction surface between the modularized water collecting slot and the support frame, a rainwater collecting hole and the water collecting pipe; the water collecting pipe is connected with the water collecting tank; and the filter plate is disposed aslant.


10. The solar energy collector with comprehensive effects according to claim 1, wherein, the solar energy collector is in the form of a horizontal structure or a vertical structure. 

