
A solar panel support system, having extruded thermo plastic rails, with channels formed along such rails, mounting legs of thermo plastic or metal, and attachment devices for attaching the mounting legs to the channels in the rails.



1. A solar panel support system, comprising:
a plurality of extruded thermo plastic rails;
a plurality of channels formed along such rails;
a plurality of mounting legs of material selected from thermo plastics or metals, and attachment devices for attaching said mounting legs to said channels in said rails.



2. A solar panel support system as claimed in claim 1: wherein
the channels are generally of rectangular shape, and define inwardly extending channel walls defining between them a slot along the rails.



3. A solar panel support system as claimed in claim 1: wherein
the attachment devices are in the form of threaded attachment devices having heads with generally planar surfaces, for engaging and non rotatively holding the threaded attachment devices in the respective channels.



4. A solar panel support system as claimed in claim 1: wherein
the attachment legs are in the form of generally L-shaped members, having a vertical portion and a horizontal portion, and the horizontal portion being attachable to a support surface, and the vertical portion being attachable to the rails.



5. A solar panel support system as claimed in claim 1: and including a plurality of attachment brackets, for attaching solar panels to such rails, wherein the attachment brackets comprise a generally vertical portion, a lower horizontal locking sliding portion, and an upper horizontal attachment portion, and wherein the lower sliding portion comprises the generally Tee shaped formation having a stem, and a head transverse to the stem, and wherein the head is slidably receivable in the channels.


6. A solar panel support system as claimed in claim 5: wherein the vertical portions of the attachment brackets will be of pre-determined first height, and the upper attachment portions will be located in a plane below the edge of the support rails, whereby when the attachment brackets are tightened up against the solar panels, the attachment brackets will make a frictional binding engagement within their respective channels. 

