
A system for securing photovoltaic panel modules to a support structure includes a first elongate member securable to the support structure. The first elongate member includes a plurality of first mounting sites positionally fixed thereon. A second elongate member is securable to the support structure. The second elongate member includes a plurality of second mounting sites positionally fixed thereon. The second elongate member is spaced from the first elongate member and aligned therewith in a generally parallel orientation. The position of the first and second elongate members is adjustable to align the first and second fixed mounting sites in a predetermined configuration. When the first and second elongate members are aligned in the predetermined configuration, the plurality of first mounting sites and second mounting sites are brought into alignment with each other to permit mounting of a plurality of panel modules to the first and second elongate members.



1-26. (canceled)


27. A photovoltaic (PV) panel module mountable to a mounting structure comprising:
a frameless PV panel defined by an outer perimeter, the PV panel including a plurality of spaced mounting holes formed there-through, the mounting holes being disposed inwardly from the PV panel perimeter, the mounting holes being adapted to receive mounting hardware for securing the PV panel to the mounting structure.



28. The PV panel module of claim 27, wherein the mounting holes are lined with a bushing.


29. The PV panel module of claim 28, wherein the bushing is formed of an elastomeric material.


30. The PV panel module of claim 27, wherein the PV panel includes a junction box disposed thereon, the junction box providing a termination point for individual photo cells which make up the PV panel.


31. The PV panel module of claim 27, wherein the junction box is disposed on an undersurface of the PV panel.


32. The PV panel module of claim 27, wherein the PV panel includes a plurality of solar cells and the mounting holes are disposed on the PV panel between the plurality of solar cells.

