
The present invention relates generally to the photovoltaic generation of electrical energy. The present invention relates more particularly to photovoltaic arrays for use in photovoltaically generating electrical energy. Aspects of the present invention provide a variety of photovoltaic roofing elements and systems that include, for example, interlocking geometries to provide for water handling and integration with conventional roofing materials; and wire management features that can protect wiring and associated electrical components from physical and/or environmental damage.



1. A photovoltaic roofing element comprising:
a frame structure having an upward-facing surface and a downward-facing surface having a top end and a bottom end, the frame structure having an attachment zone and an exposure zone, with the exposure zone disposed toward the bottom end of the frame structure, and the attachment zone disposed toward the top end of the frame structure; and
one or more photovoltaic elements held in the exposure zone of the frame structure.



2. The photovoltaic roofing element of claim 1, wherein the frame structure includes sidelap portions disposed at its lateral edges and having geometries adapted to interlock with adjacent photovoltaic roofing elements to provide water drainage channels.


3. The photovoltaic roofing element of claim 2, wherein the sidelap portion at one lateral edge includes an upward-facing water drainage channel; and the sidelap portion at the other lateral edge includes a downward-facing flange adapted to fit into the upward-facing water drainage channel of an adjacent photovoltaic roofing element.


4. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure further comprises a raised lip at the top end of the attachment zone.


5. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure includes one or more raised sidewalls that at least partially define an area in which the one more photovoltaic elements are held.


6. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 5, wherein the sidewalls have one or more channels formed therein.


7. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 5, wherein the area in which the one or more photovoltaic elements are held has an upward-facing base surface, and wherein the sidewalls extend above the base surface by at least about 2 mm.


8. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 5, wherein an adhesive or sealant seals an edge of a photovoltaic element to a sidewall.


9. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 5, wherein the sidewalls substantially enclose the area in which the one or more photovoltaic elements are held; and the one or more photovoltaic elements substantially fill the area defined by the sidewalls


10. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure further comprises mounting tabs comprising raised nail bosses, disposed in the attachment zone.


11. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure further comprises a raised lip at the bottom end of the attachment zone.


12. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, further including a leading edge extension that does not span the entire length of the frame structure.


13. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 12, wherein the leading edge extension includes a recess on its downward-facing surface, configured to fit a raised lip at the top end of the attachment zone of an underlying photovoltaic roofing element.


14. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the downward-facing surface of the frame structure includes a ridge disposed toward its bottom end, and wherein the upward-facing surface of the frame structure includes a channel disposed near the bottom end of the attachment zone, and wherein the ridge is configured to interlock with the channel of underlying photovoltaic roofing element.


15. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein at least one lateral side edge of the attachment zone does not include a ridge, such that water in the attachment zone can flow off of the side thereof.


16. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure comprises one or more downward-facing support structures disposed on the downward-facing surface of the frame structure.


17. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure comprises a plurality of slats that hold the photovoltaic elements.


18. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure comprises a pad, upon which an electrical component is disposed.


19. The photovoltaic roofing element according to claim 1, wherein the frame structure is rigid.


20. A photovoltaic roofing system disposed on a roof deck having a top end and a bottom end, the photovoltaic roofing system comprising:
one or more photovoltaic roofing elements each comprising
a frame structure having an upward-facing surface and a downward-facing surface having a top end and a bottom end, the frame structure having an attachment zone and an exposure zone, with the exposure zone disposed toward the bottom end of the frame structure, and the attachment zone disposed toward the top end of the frame structure; and
one or more photovoltaic elements held in the exposure zone of the frame structure,

the photovoltaic roofing elements being contiguously disposed on the roof deck, the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic elements together having a top edge facing the top end of the roof deck, a bottom edge facing the bottom end of the roof deck, and two side edges, the sidelap portions of the photovoltaic roofing elements interlocking to provide water drainage channels;
a plurality of roofing elements disposed adjacent the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements, along their side edges; and
side flashing elements disposed along the side edges of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements, the side flashing elements having a cross-sectional shape comprising a vertically-extending feature and a flange extending away from a lateral side at the downward end of the vertically-extending feature, with the flange facing away from the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements and being at least partially disposed between a roofing element and the roof deck, the vertically-extending feature including a matched interlocking geometry adapted to interlock with the sidelap portion of an adjacent photovoltaic roofing element.



21. The photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 20, wherein the vertically-extending features of the side flashing elements along a first lateral edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements include a downward-facing flange, disposed in upward-facing channels of the photovoltaic roofing elements disposed along the first lateral edge; and wherein the vertically-extending features of the side flashing elements along a second lateral edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements include an upward-facing water drainage channel, into which downward-facing flanges of the photovoltaic roofing elements disposed along the second lateral edge are disposed.


22. The photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 21, further comprising one or more top flashing elements disposed along the top edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements, the one or more top flashing elements having a bottom end disposed over the top edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements; and a top end disposed under one or more roofing elements disposed along the top edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements.


23. The photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 21, further comprising a cant strip disposed under the bottom edge of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic elements and on top of an underlying course of roofing elements.


24. The photovoltaic roofing system according to claim 21, wherein one or more side flashing elements is configured such that a conduit is formed underneath the side flashing element and adjacent the frame structure of the photovoltaic roofing element with which it interlocks.


25. A method for installing a photovoltaic roofing system on a roof deck having a top end and a bottom end, the roof deck having disposed thereon a plurality of roofing elements method comprising:
continguously disposing one or more photovoltaic roofing elements on the roof deck, each photovoltaic roofing element comprising
a frame structure having an upward-facing surface and a downward-facing surface having a top end and a bottom end, the frame structure having an attachment zone and an exposure zone, with the exposure zone disposed toward the bottom end of the frame structure, and the attachment zone disposed toward the top end of the frame structure; and
one or more photovoltaic elements held in the exposure zone of the frame structure;

the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic elements together having a top edge facing the top end of the roof deck, a bottom edge facing the bottom end of the roof deck, and two side edges wherein the roofing elements are disposed along the side edges, the sidelap portions of the photovoltaic roofing elements interlocking to provide water drainage channels; and
disposing side flashing elements disposed along the side edges of the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements, the side flashing elements having a cross-sectional shape comprising a vertically-extending feature and a flange extending away from a lateral side at the downward end of the vertically-extending feature, with the flange facing away from the contiguously-disposed photovoltaic roofing elements and being at least partially disposed between a roofing element and the roof deck, the vertically-extending feature including a matched interlocking geometry adapted to interlock with the sidelap portion of an adjacent photovoltaic roofing element. 


