
Methods for measuring insulation resistance in a photovoltaic (PV) array may include partitioning the PV array into groups of PV panels, isolating a group of PV panels selected for an insulation resistance measurement from other groups of panels by setting bypass selectors on each PV panel in the PV array, and making an insulation resistance measurement for the selected group. If a measured value of insulation resistance for a selected group corresponds to an insulation problem in a PV array component, a separate measurement of insulation resistance may be made for each PV panel in the selected group. Insulation resistance measurements may be made accurately and rapidly for large PV arrays without disconnecting and reconnecting cables between panels. Measurements may be made at frequent, regular intervals to permit changes in insulation resistance to be detected before damage from dielectric breakdown occurs.



1. A method for measuring insulation resistance in a photovoltaic (PV) array, comprising:
selecting a group of PV panels in the PV array for a measurement of insulation resistance;
setting a bypass selector for each PV panel in the selected group to a non-bypassed switch state;
setting a bypass selector for each PV panel not included in the selected group to a bypassed switch state; and
measuring a value of insulation resistance for the selected group of PV panels.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
opening a negative output switch and a positive output switch for the PV array to disconnect a PV array output voltage from an inverter;
closing a first shorting switch and a second shorting switch to short a PV array positive output feeder to a PV array negative output feeder; and
measuring a value of insulation resistance between the shorted positive and negative output feeders and a ground reference terminal.



3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
after measuring a value of insulation resistance for the selected group of PV panels, closing a negative output switch and a positive output switch for the PV array to reconnect the PV array output voltage to the inverter; and
after measuring a value of insulation resistance for the selected group of PV panels, opening a first shorting switch and a second shorting switch to disconnect a line terminal input for an insulation resistance tester from the a PV array positive output feeder and the PV array negative output feeder.



4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
repeating the steps of:
selecting a group of PV panels in the PV array for a measurement of insulation resistance;
setting a bypass selector for each PV panel in the selected group to a non-bypassed switch state;
setting a bypass selector for each PV panel not included in the selected group to a bypassed switch state; and
measuring a value of insulation resistance for the selected group of PV panels,
until a measurement of insulation resistance has been made for every group of PV panels for the PV array.




5. The method of claim 1, further comprising assigning every PV panel in a PV array to at least one group of PV panels for measurement of insulation resistance.


6. The method of claim 1, further comprising partitioning the PV array into more than one group of PV panels for measurement of insulation resistance.


7. The method claim 1, further comprising measuring the insulation resistance for each and every PV panel in a group of PV panels only when an insulation resistance problem has been detected for the group of panels.


8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
saving previously measured values of insulation resistance for a selected PV array component in a historical record;
calculating a rate of change in the insulation resistance value for the selected PV array component by comparing measurements from historical records with current measurements;
projecting a time duration for the insulation resistance value to fall below a specified threshold value of insulation resistance, at the calculated rate of change; and
performing preventive maintenance on the selected PV array component before the expiration of the projected time duration.



9. The method of claim 1, further comprising making a separate insulation resistance measurement for each PV panel in a PV array without disconnecting any cable assemblies between PV panels.


10. The method of claim 1, wherein, before making an insulation resistance measurement for any group of PV panels, a first insulation resistance measurement is made by setting the bypass selector in every PV panel to a “bypass” switching state, setting a serial-parallel selector in every PV panel to a “serial” switching state, and making an insulation resistance measurement corresponding to an insulation resistance of cable assemblies and feeders in the PV array.


11. A method for measuring insulation resistance values for cable assemblies and feeders in a PV array, comprising:
setting a series-parallel selector on each PV panel in the PV array to connect all the PV panels to one another with serial electrical connections;
setting a bypass selector on each PV panel in the PV array to a “bypass” switching state, thereby excluding output voltage from a PV module on each PV panel from PV array output voltage; and
measuring a value of insulation resistance for PV array.



12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
opening a negative output switch and a positive output switch for the PV array to disconnect a PV array output voltage from an inverter;
closing a first shorting switch and a second shorting switch to short a PV array positive output feeder to a PV array negative output feeder; and
measuring a value of insulation resistance between the shorted positive and negative output feeders and a ground reference terminal.



13. The method of claim 12, further comprising comparing the measured value of insulation resistance to a threshold value corresponding to an insulation resistance fault.


14. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
when the measured value of insulation resistance is less than the threshold value, identifying a PV panel as the source of the insulation resistance problem by sequentially opening a circuit breaking switch connected to the bypass selector on each PV panel and making another insulation resistance measurement after each opening of a circuit breaking switch, one PV panel after another.



15. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
making a new insulation resistance measurement after each opening of a circuit breaking switch, until a measured insulation resistance value indicates no problem with insulation.



16. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
identifying the last PV panel for which a circuit breaking switch was opened and no insulation problem was detected as the source of the insulation resistance problem.



17. A method for optimizing PV array output power, comprising:
measuring an insulation resistance value for a PV panel in a PV array;
comparing the measured value of insulation resistance for the PV panel to a threshold value corresponding to a selected value of leakage current; and
when the measured value of insulation resistance is less than the threshold value, setting a bypass selector on the PV panel to a bypass switching state.



18. The method of claim 15, further comprising measuring insulation resistance for every PV panel in the PV array.


19. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
for every PV panel having a value of insulation resistance less than the threshold value, setting a bypass selector to a bypass switching state.



20. The method of claim 15, further comprising minimizing a number of PV panels having voltage and current coupled to the PV array outputs and a value of insulation resistance less than the threshold value, thereby maximizing an amount of power produced by the PV array. 

