
A flexible solar cell assembly having solar cells that are positioned within a sealed module chamber. A sealed wiring chamber is positioned on an end of the sealed module chamber and is interposed between the sealed module chamber and a junction box. Wiring interconnecting the junction box to the solar cells in the sealed module chamber is routed through the sealed wiring chamber to inhibit water entry into the sealed module chamber via the wiring.



1. A flexible solar power apparatus comprising:
a solar power module having a flexible bottom sheet and a flexible top sheet and side sealing regions, wherein the solar power module defines a first edge and an interior space that houses at least one solar cell and wherein the at least one solar cell includes a conductive pathway that allows for current generated by the at least one solar cell to be transmitted outside of the solar power module;
a mounting module that is coupled to the first edge of the solar power module adjacent a first side sealing region wherein the mounting module defines a first mounting surface and a second mounting surface proximate the first flexible bottom sheet and the second flexible top sheet respectively of the solar power module; and
a junction box that is mounted on the mounting module, wherein the mounting module is adapted to receive the junction box on either the first or second surfaces and wherein the junction box is electrically coupled with the conductive pathway to receive the current generated by the at least one solar cell.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible bottom sheet includes a first material and the flexible top sheet includes a second material that is transparent to visible light.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the solar power module includes an encapsulant material coating the at least one solar cell and filling the interior space of the solar cell module.


4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the flexible bottom sheet include a polymeric outer layer covering an inorganic non-transparent moisture barrier layer.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one solar cell includes at least one Group IBIIIAVIA thin film solar cell.


6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible top sheet comprises a sheet of flexible glass.


7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises an edge sealant portion having a first and a second surface wherein the edge sealant portion is attached to the first edge of the solar power module and the first and second surfaces of the edge sealant portion are adapted to receive the junction box.


8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the flexible top sheet does not extend to the edge of the first side sealing region so as to expose a surface of the first side sealing region and wherein the flexible top sheet extends to the edge of the first side sealing region.


9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the mounting module is adhered to the flexible bottom sheet and to the exposed surface of the first side sealing region.


10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first and second mounting surfaces are comprised of the same material that forms the flexible bottom sheet.


11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the edge sealant portion extends along the width of the first edge of the solar power module.


12. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising at least one mechanical support that extends between the first and second mounting surface and through the first side sealing region of the solar power module to mechanically couple the mounting module to the solar power module.


13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises first and second cantilevered members that extend outward from the first side sealing region of the solar power module wherein the conductive pathway is positioned between the first and second cantilevered members.


14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first and second cantilevered members are formed of an electrically insulating material.


15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting module further comprises a first and second mounting tab that defines a first and second surface respectively, wherein the first and second mounting tabs are mounted adjacent the first and second cantilevered members so as to cover the first and second cantilevered members and wherein the junction box is mounted on either the first or second surfaces of the mounting tabs and the conductive pathway is routed through the first or second mounting tabs.


16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the first and second surfaces of the mounting tabs include a layer of the material that is the same material as the flexible back sheet that receives the junction box.


17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first and second mounting tabs extend substantially across the width of the first edge of the solar power module.


18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first and second mounting tabs extend across only a portion of the width of the first edge of the solar power module.


19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first and second mounting tabs are tapered.


20. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising mechanical supports that extend through the first and second mounting tabs.


21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises first and second mounting tabs either of which can receive the junction box that are attached to the first side sealing region of the solar power module so as to extend outwardly therefrom and define a space therebetween, wherein the conductive lead extends out of the first side sealing region in the space.


22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the first and second mounting tabs are positioned so as to be substantially co-planar with the flexible bottom sheet and the flexible top sheet respectively.


23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the flexible bottom sheet extends beyond the first side sealing region of the solar power module so as to define the first mounting tab of the mounting module.


24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the second flexible top sheet does not extend beyond the first side sealing region of the solar power module so as to expose a portion of the first side sealing region of the solar power module and wherein the second mounting tab is mounted to the exposed portion of the side first sealing region.


25. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising an insert portion that is positioned within the space so as to seal the conductive lead in the space and wherein the conductive lead is routed though the first or the second mounting tabs into the junction box positioned thereon.


26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises a first mounting tab that can receive the junction box that is attached to the first side sealing region so as to extend outwardly therefrom and so as to be positioned proximate the flexible bottom sheet wherein the conductive lead extends out of the first side sealing region in a space above the first mounting tab.


27. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the first tab is positioned so as to be substantially co-planar with the flexible bottom sheet and wherein the junction box is mounted on the first mounting tab.


28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising a cover member that covers the portion of the conductive lead that is in the space wherein the conductive lead is routed from the space through the mounting tab to the junction box positioned on the first mounting tab.


29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a second mounting tab that is positioned on the first side sealing region so as to extend outward from the first edge of the solar power module adjacent the flexible top sheet and wherein the junction box is formed on the second mounting tab.


30. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises a first member that extends outward from the first side sealing region wherein the conductive lead is positioned within the first member and wherein the first member is foldable so as to be folded onto either the flexible back sheet or the flexible top sheet of the solar power module so as to define a mounting surface upon which the junction box is mounted.


31. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an adhering member that adheres the first member to the flexible bottom sheet or the flexible top sheet.


32. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the first member is formed of the same material as the flexible bottom sheet.


33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting module comprises a clamp member that defines a first and a second surface, wherein the claim member is attached to the first edge of the solar power module so that the first surface is proximate the flexible bottom sheet of the solar power module and so that the second surface is proximate the flexible top sheet of the solar power module and wherein the junction box is mounted on either the first or second surface of the clamp member.


34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the portion of the clamp member that defines the first and second surfaces is formed of the same material as the flexible bottom sheet of the solar power module.


35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising an adhering member that adheres the clamp member to the solar power module.


36. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conductive pathway comprises a conductive lead that extends out of the first side sealing region and is routed into the junction box.


37. A method of forming a solar cell, the method comprising:
forming a solar panel module wherein at least one solar panel is sealed within an enclosure having a first sealed edge and wherein the solar panel module has a conductive pathway that extends through the first sealed edge;
forming a junction box module that is configured to receive a junction box in a plurality of different locations and is further configured to be attached to the solar panel adjacent the first sealed edge;
attaching the junction box module to the solar panel module;
mounting the junction box on one of the plurality of different locations of the junction box module.



38. The method of claim 37, further comprising electrically connecting the conductive pathway to the junction box.


39. The method of claim 37 wherein electrically connecting the conductive pathway to the junction box comprises coupling a conductive lead that extends out of the solar panel module to the junction box.


40. The method of claim 37, wherein forming a junction box module comprises forming a module having an upper and lower surfaces where both are configured to receive the junction box wherein the module is sized so as to couple to peripheral surfaces of the solar panel module.


41. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the solar panel module comprises forming a solar panel module having a flexible bottom sheet and a flexible top sheet and side sealing regions interconnecting the flexible top sheet and the flexible bottom sheet that define a first side sealing region.


42. The method of claim 41, wherein forming a junction box module comprises forming an edge sealant portion having a first and second surface that is adapted to receive the junction box and wherein attaching the junction box to the solar panel module comprises attaching the edge sealant portion to the first side sealing region.


43. The method of claim 42, wherein forming the solar panel module comprises forming the module so that the flexible top sheet does not extend to the edge of the first side sealing region so as to expose a surface of the first side sealing region and wherein the flexible top sheet extends to the edge of the first side sealing region.


44. The method of claim 43, wherein attaching the junction box module comprises attaching the junction box module so that the junction box module is adhered to the flexible bottom sheet and to the exposed surface of the first side sealing region.


45. The method of claim 40, further comprising coupling reinforcing members to the junction box module.


46. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the junction box module comprises forming a module having a first and a second cantilevered member that extend outward from the first side sealing region of the solar panel module and so that a conductive pathway extends between the first and second cantilevered members.


47. The method of claim 46, wherein the first and second cantilevered members are formed of an electrically insulating material.


48. The method of claim 46, wherein forming the junction box module further comprises mounting a first and second mounting tabs that defines a first and second surfaces respectively on the first and second cantilevered members so as to cover the first and second cantilevered members and wherein mounting the junction box comprises mounting the junction box on the first or second surfaces of the mounting tabs.


49. The method of claim 48, wherein the first and second mounting tabs are formed of the same material as the flexible back sheet.


50. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the junction box module comprises forming first and second tabs either of which can receive the junction box and wherein attaching the junction box module to the solar power module comprises attaching the first and second mounting tabs to the first side sealing region so that the tabs extends outwardly therefrom and define a space therebetween so that a conductor lead can be positioned within the space.


51. the method of claim 50, wherein the first and second tabs are substantially co-planar with the flexible bottom sheet and the flexible top sheet respectively.


52. The method of claim 51, wherein forming the first tab comprises extending the flexible bottom sheet beyond the first side sealing region to define the first tab.


53. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the junction box module comprises attaching a first mounting tab to the first side sealing region proximate the flexible bottom sheet so that a conductive tab extends out of the first side sealing region in a space above the first mounting tab and positioning a cover member on the first mounting tab so as to cover the conductive lead.


54. The method of claim 53, wherein forming the junction box module further comprises forming a second mounting tab that is positioned on the first side sealing region so as to extend outward from the first edge of the solar power module adjacent the flexible top sheet.


55. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the junction box module and attaching the junction box module to the solar power module comprises attaching a foldable member that has a conductive lead positioned therein and then folding the foldable member onto either the flexible back sheet or the flexible top sheet so as to define a mounting surface upon which the junction box is mounted.


56. The method of claim 40, wherein forming the junction box module comprises forming a clamp member that defines a first and second surface that can receive the junction box and wherein attaching the junction box module comprises attaching the clamp member to the solar power module so that the first surface is proximate the flexible bottom member and the second surface is proximate the flexible top member. 

