
The invention relates to a support (1) for mounting a solar panel (S), having a bottom part (10) for placement on a substantially flat underlying surface, particularly on a roof; a plurality of walls (20) which extend upwards from the bottom part (10), a plurality of supporting surfaces (26, 28) for laying on the solar panel (S) being provided at the upper sides opposite the bottom part; and fastening means (33, 40) for fastening the solar panel on the supporting surfaces, the fastening means clamping the solar panel (S) against the supporting surfaces (26, 28). Preferably, the fastening means (33, 40) comprise at least one clamping rail (40) which is fitted on a lateral border of the solar panel (S) lying on the supporting surfaces (26, 28), and extends continuously over at least half, preferably at least three-quarters, of the longitudinal dimension of the lateral border of the solar panel. Preferably, the support has a stiffener (60) which is insertable between the walls (20) and provides an additional supporting surface (61) for the solar panel (S). The stiffener (60) may be formed as a strut and the walls (20) of the support (1) may have means for mounting the strut.



1. A support for mounting a solar panel, the support comprising:
a bottom part for placement on a substantially flat underlying surface,
a plurality of walls, which extend upwards from the bottom part, so that the bottom part and the walls form a chamber for receiving ballast and configure the support with a trough-shaped or box-shaped structure, supporting surfaces for laying on the solar panel being provided at the upper sides of the walls opposite the bottom part, and
fastening means for fastening the solar panel on the supporting surfaces, the fastening means being suitable or designed for clamping the solar panel against the supporting surfaces.



2. The support of claim 1, the fastening means comprising at least one clamping rail, which is fitted in such a manner on a lateral border of the solar panel lying on the supporting surfaces that it clamps the solar panel against the supporting surfaces.


3. The support of claim 2, the at least one clamping rail extending continuously over at least half of the longitudinal dimension of the lateral border of the solar panel.


4. The support of claim 2, the fastening means comprising at least two clamping rails which are fitted on two opposite lateral borders of the solar panel.


5. The support of claim 3, the at least one clamping rail having a covering part which is fitted directly over the lateral border of the solar panel, and a fixing part which extends outside a periphery of the solar panel.


6. The support of claim 1, the walls of the support having a border or flange at their upper sides opposite the bottom part, which border or flange comprises the supporting surfaces and supports the at least one clamping rail or the fixing part thereof.


7. The support of claim 6, the border or flange extending outside the periphery of the solar panel lying on the supporting surfaces, and the fixing part of the at least one clamping rail being fitted and fixed on the border or flange.


8. The support of claim 1, the fastening means comprising attachments or bushes for receiving screws, which attachments or bushes are situated at a lower side of the border or flange, and are preferably formed integrally with the border or flange and/or with the walls.


9. The support of claim 5, the covering part having a width in the range from 5 mm to 15 mm, preferably from 8 mm to 12 mm, and the fixing part having a width in the range from 10 mm to 25 mm, preferably 15 mm to 20 mm.


10. The support of claim 2, the at least one clamping rail comprising a yielding or elastic element which absorbs the clamping pressure and distributes it over the lateral border of the solar panel, the yielding or elastic element preferably being situated in the covering part of the at least one clamping rail, and the yielding or elastic element preferably having an elongated form and extending along the clamping rails.


11. The support of claim 1, further comprising a stiffener, which is insertable between the walls (20) of the support and provides an additional supporting surface for the solar panel.


12. The support of claim 11, the walls having means for mounting the stiffener, the mounting means comprising recesses or cutouts in the walls for fitting or inserting the strut.


13. The support of claim 1, the supporting surfaces comprising at least one lateral surface which supports an edge of the solar panel and serves for positioning the solar panel on the support, and at least one stop being formed on or at the border or flange, and the stop comprising the lateral surface.


14. A support for mounting a solar panel comprising
a bottom part for placement on a substantially flat underlying surface, particularly on a roof,
a plurality of walls, which extend upwards from the bottom part, so that the bottom part and the walls form a chamber for receiving ballast and configure the support with a trough-shaped or box-shaped structure,
a border or flange at the upper sides of the walls opposite the bottom part, the border or flange comprising supporting surfaces for laying on the solar panel, and
fastening means for fastening the solar panel on the supporting surfaces, the fastening means comprising at least one clamping rail, which is fitted on the border or flange over a lateral border of the solar panel lying on the supporting surfaces and which clamps the solar panel against the supporting surfaces.



15. The support of claim 14, each clamping rail having a covering part which is fitted directly over the lateral border of the solar panel and a fixing part which is supported by the border or flange.


16. The support of claim 15, the fixing part of the at least one clamping rail being fitted and fixed on the border or flange outside a periphery of the solar panel lying on the supporting surfaces.


17. The support of claim 14, further comprising a stiffener which is insertable between the walls of the support and provides an additional supporting surface for the solar panel.


18. The support of claim 14, the support being formed in such a manner that it is suitable for nesting with a similar or identical support.


19. The support of claim 14, the support being produced substantially from a plastic, such as, for example, polyurethane, polyethylene, preferably by an injection-compression molding process or vacuum thermoforming.


20. A device comprising a support according to claim 1 and a solar panel.

