
A unitized photovoltaic assembly is disclosed. The unitized photovoltaic assembly consists of a unitary frame designed to retain a plurality of photovoltaic modules. The unitary frame is formed by orienting a plurality of rails in the lateral direction above and mounted too a plurality of struts oriented in the vertical direction. Once the unitary frame is formed, photovoltaic modules slide into slots running the length of the rails and are thus retained in the unitary frame. Also added to the unitary frame are a series of power conversion elements, retaining brackets, mounting brackets, and cleaning elements. The completed unitized photovoltaic assembly can be fabricated off-site, transported as a single unit and installed to a roof or other surface with the use of a specialized lifting frame, also disclosed. Additional unitized photovoltaic assemblies can be mechanically and electrically interconnected to form a complete photovoltaic system.



1. A unitized photovoltaic assembly, the assembly comprising:
a unitary framework comprised of horizontal rails and vertical struts, said horizontal rails having a plurality of integral receiving slots;
a plurality of photovoltaic modules, each photovoltaic module having a first pair of opposing edges and a second pair of opposing edges, said first pair of opposing edges being retained within the receiving slots of said horizontal rails;
a plurality of retaining brackets fastened to said horizontal rails;
a plurality of panel spacers;
a plurality of power conversion elements fastened to said unitary framework and electrically connected to at least one corresponding photovoltaic module; and
a plurality of wiring.



2. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein said unitary framework comprises:
a plurality of horizontal rails having a uniform double “I” cross-section;
a plurality of vertical struts having a uniform “I” cross section;
uniform rows and columns of said horizontal rails and vertical struts comprising said unitary framework;
a plurality of welds for securing said horizontal rails and vertical struts comprising said unitary framework; and
a plurality of mounting brackets.



3. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein said plurality of retaining brackets further comprises:
a bracket affixed to said horizontal rails;
a retaining surface abutting at least one edge of said second pair of opposing edges of at least one photovoltaic module; and
a fastener securing said retaining surface to said bracket.



4. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 3, wherein said retaining surface is removable.


5. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of polarized power connectors connected to said wiring and positioned such that at least one polarized power connector for one unitized photovoltaic assembly is aligned with at least one polarized power connector for another unitized photovoltaic assembly when coupled together.


6. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising:
at least one spray head;
at least one connector connected to said spray head;
a plurality of tubing attached to said connector; and
at least one fluid interconnect attached to said tubing.



7. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein said plurality of panel spacers further comprise:
a mounting portion configured to allow attachment to the spacers to said photovoltaic module; and
a plurality fins abutting as least one edge of said second pair of opposing edges of at least one photovoltaic module.



8. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of mounting interlocks fastened to said horizontal rails and positioned such that at least one mounting interlock of one unitized photovoltaic assembly is coupled with the mounting interlock of another unitized photovoltaic assembly.


9. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of mounting interlocks fastened to said vertical struts and positioned such that at least one mounting interlock of one unitized photovoltaic assembly is coupled with the mounting interlock of another unitized photovoltaic assembly.


10. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a lifting frame, said lifting frame comprising:
a framework; and
a plurality of supports.



11. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 10, wherein said plurality of supports are tabs transiently engaged with said unitary framework.


12. The unitized photovoltaic assembly of claim 11, wherein said lifting frame can be disengaged from said unitary framework.


13. A method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array, the method comprising:
forming a plurality of horizontal rails, each having a plurality of integral receiving slots;
forming a plurality of vertical struts;
arranging said horizontal rails and said vertical struts into uniform rows and columns;
securing said horizontal rails to said vertical struts, forming a unitary framework;
inserting photovoltaic modules, having a photovoltaic panel bound by a panel frame, into the receiving slots of said horizontal rails;
attaching a plurality of spacers to said photovoltaic modules; and
fastening retaining brackets to the ends of said horizontal rails, forming a unitized photovoltaic assembly.



14. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, wherein said forming a plurality of horizontal rails includes extruding aluminum alloy into a uniform double “I” cross-section.


15. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, wherein said forming a plurality of vertical struts includes extruding aluminum alloy into a uniform “I” cross-section.


16. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, the method further comprising:
fastening power conversion elements to said unitary frame support structure;
connecting said power conversion elements to corresponding photovoltaic modules;
wiring said power conversion elements to each other; and
connecting polarized power connectors to said wiring.



17. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, the method further comprising:
fastening tubing to the unitary frame, said tubing including at least one connector;
connecting at least one spray head to said at least one connector; and
fastening said spray head to said unitary frame support structure.



18. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, the method further comprising:
engaging a lifting frame with said unitized photovoltaic assembly;
raising said unitized photovoltaic assembly to a surface;
lowering said unitized photovoltaic assembly onto said surface;
securing said unitized photovoltaic assembly to said surface with mounting brackets; and
disengaging said lifting frame from said unitized photovoltaic assembly.



19. The method for mounting photovoltaic modules in a unitized array of claim 13, the method further comprising:
fastening at least one mounting interlock to said unitary frame positioned such that at least one mounting interlock of one unitized photovoltaic assembly is aligned with at least one mounting interlock of another unitized photovoltaic assembly; and
securing said mounting interlock of one assembly to said mounting interlock of another assembly. 


