
The present invention includes a solar panel mount. The solar panel mount comprises a mounting surface such as a base or a rail. The rail has a generally elongated clamp plate attached to the rail proximal to a first end and having a clamp pad proximal to a second end. There is a wedge plate pivotally connected to the rail proximal to a first end of the wedge plate. The wedge plate is attached between the rail and the generally elongated clamp plate. The wedge plate is pivotal from a disengaged position to a clamping position. The clamping position is the position of the wedge where the wedge head is between the clamp plate and the rail. In another embodiment, the mount is configured to support a solar panel having a flange that is clamped between the clamp pad and the rail.



1. A solar panel mount, comprising:
a base plate
a generally elongated clamp plate attached to the base plate proximal to a first end and having a clamp pad proximal to a second end; and
a wedge plate moveably connected to the base plate between the base plate and the generally elongated clamp plate, the wedge plate is movable from a first disengaged position to a second clamping position between the clamp plate and the base plate.



2. The mount of claim 1, wherein the mount is configured to support a solar panel having a clamp receiving flange that is clamped between the clamp pad and the base plate.


3. The mount of claim 1, wherein the base plate is a rail and the clamp plate and the wedge plate are slidably attached to rail by at least one pin that is slidable within a channel in the rail.


4. The mount of claim 1, wherein the base plate is generally bow shaped defining an apex having a predetermined height between the first end of the base plate and the second end of the base plate.


5. The mount of claim 1, wherein the clamp plate is generally bow shaped defining an apex having a predetermined height between the first end of the clamp plate and the clamp pad, the clamp plate is affixed proximal the first end by a first pin and a second pin proximal the apex.


6. The mount of claim 5, wherein the effective length of the first pin and second pin as well as the apex height are predetermined to create a distance between the clamp plate and the rail that is less than the thickness of the wedge plate.


7. The mount of claim 5, wherein the first pin and second pin are rivets having a predetermined distance between the head and buck tail of the rivet cooperating with the top plate and bottom plate to define clamp force therebetween that is sufficiently strong to hold the flange or flange in place but facilitates the movement of the wedge into a clamping position without need for tools.


8. The mount of claim 1, wherein the wedge plate has a bevel edge on the side that engages the rail and a thumb pad on the opposite side of the rail.


9. The mount of claim 1, wherein the wedge plate has a plurality of dimpled protrusions that are configured with a knurled surface to engage the flange.


10. The mount of claim 5, wherein the distance between the clamp plate and the rail creates a clamping force that enables the wedge plate to be pivoted into the clamping position manually, but is sufficiently strong to secure the plate to the rail.


9. A method of mounting a solar panel, comprising:
providing a solar panel of the type having a frame around the solar panel and a flange on the frame beneath the solar panel;
providing a solar panel mount of claim 1;
placing the flange between the clamp plate and the rail; and
moving the wedge plate from the disengaged position to the clamping position.



10. A method of mounting a solar panel, comprising:
providing a solar panel of the type having a frame around the solar panel and a flange on the frame beneath the solar panel;
providing a solar panel mount of claim 3;
sliding the clamp plate along the channel to position the clamp plate over the flange; and
moving the wedge plate from the disengaged position to the clamping position.



11. A framed object mount, comprising:
a supporting surface;
a generally elongated clamp plate attached to the surface proximal to a first end and having a clamp pad proximal to a second end; and
a wedge plate pivotally connected to the surface proximal to a first end of the wedge head between the surface and the generally elongated clamp plate, the wedge plate is pivotal from a disengage position to a clamping position that positions the wedge head between the clamp plate and the surface.



12. The mount of claim 11, wherein there is configured to support a framed object having a flange that is clamped between the clamp pad and the surface.


13. The mount of claim 11, wherein clamp plate and the wedge plate are slidably attached to surface by at least one pin that is slidable within a channel in the surface.


14. The mount of claim 11, wherein the clamp plate is generally bow shaped defining an apex having a predetermined height between the first end of the clamp plate and the clamp pad, the clamp plate is affixed proximal the first end by a first pin and a second pin proximal the apex.


15. The mount of claim 14, wherein the effective length of the first pin and second pin as well as the apex height are predetermined to create a distance between the clamp plate and the surface that is less than the wedge plate.


16. The mount of claim 14, wherein the first pin and second pin are rivets.


17. The mount of claim 11, wherein the wedge plate has a bevel edge on the side that engages the surface and a thumb pad on the opposite side of the surface.


18. The mount of claim 14, wherein the distance between the clamp plate and the surface creates a clamping force that enables the wedge plate to be pivoted into the clamping position manually, but is sufficiently strong to secure the plate to the surface.


19. A method of mounting a framed object, comprising:
providing a framed object of the type having a frame around the framed object and a flange on the frame beneath the framed object;
providing a framed object mount of claim 11;
placing the flange between the clamp plate and the surface; and
moving the wedge plate from the disengaged position to the clamping position.



20. A method of mounting a framed object, comprising:
providing a framed object of the type having a frame around the framed object and a flange on the frame beneath the framed object;
providing a framed object mount of claim 13;
sliding the clamp plate along the channel to position the clamp plate over the flange; and
moving the wedge plate from the disengaged position to the clamping position.


