
The invention relates to a support arrangement (1) for mounting solar modules (11, 12) to a roof, an area, or a similar support structure having a support profile (2), which connects at least two solar modules (11, 12) arranged at its two different longitudinal sides, with a receptacle (9) being provided at the support profile (2) at one of its longitudinal sides, in which a free end of at least one first solar module (11) is received. In order to provide a support arrangement (1) which is stable on which the modules (11, 12) can be fastened in an unstressed fashion and which allows in a cost-efficient manner an easy connection to the solar modules (11, 12) and an equivalently easy disassembly of the connection of the solar modules (11, 12) from the support arrangement (1) it is suggested that the support arrangement (1) comprises a separate profile element (7), which can be connected to the support profile (2) in an operating position without any screws and in said position forms with a section of the support profile (2) at its other longitudinal side a receptacle (10) for a free end of at least one second solar module (12).



1. A support arrangement for mounting solar modules to a roof, an area, or a similar support structure, comprising a support profile having two different longitudinal sides, which connects at least two solar modules arranged at the two different longitudinal sides, with a receptacle being provided at one of the longitudinal sides of the support profile, in which a free end of at least one first solar module is received, the support arrangement (1) comprises a separate profile element (7), which can be connected to the support profile (2) in an operating position without any screws, and in said position forms with a section of the support profile (2) at the other of the two different longitudinal side a receptacle (10) for a free end of at least one second solar module (12).


2. A support arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the section of the support profile (2) is provided as a profile part (4), which comprises at least one flange or leg area facing the second solar module (12), on which area the free end of said solar module (12) rests in a directly or indirectly supported fashion.


3. A support arrangement according to claim 2, wherein the profile element (7) is provided as a C or U-profile with, which in the operating position encompass the free end of the second solar module (12) and here engages behind a flange of the profile part (4) with one of the legs such that the leg of the profile element (7) with the flange of the profile part (4) as well as an area of the support profile (2) adjacent to the flange can sectionally establish a form-fitting connection.


4. A support arrangement according to claim 3, wherein a section of the leg of the profile element (7), in the operating position of the profile element (7) facing the area of the flange of the profile part (4) facing away from the second solar module (12) or the respective flange itself, comprises a changing cross-section (24, 34).


5. A support arrangement according to claim 4, wherein at least one clamping part (8), fixing the profile element (7), is arranged between the areas of the profile element (7) in an operating position, and a bar (18) of the support profile (2).


6. A support arrangement according to claim 5, wherein at least one of the areas of the bar (18) of the support profile (2) and the profile element (7), in the operating position of the profile element (7) facing each other, are provided with a clamping, latching, or fastening element (15), which holds the clamping part (8) in the operating position, with the clamping part (8) being held in the operating position by at least one of the clamping, latching or fastening elements (15) extending longitudinally in reference to the areas of the bar (18) of the support profile (2), facing each other, or the profile element (7), locking to a face or faces of the legs of the clamping part (8) in the operating position.


7. A support arrangement according to claim 1, wherein at least two solar modules (11, 12) are arranged each along a longitudinal extension of the support profile (2) at the two longitudinal sides, and a support element (22) is arranged, essentially extending perpendicularly in reference to the longitudinal extension of the support profile (2), in the areas of adjacent solar modules (11, 12) of the same longitudinal side of the support profile (2) between the support area allocated to the support profile (2) and the solar modules (11, 12).


8. A support element according to claim 7, wherein the support element (22) is embodied as a profile part open towards a top thereof, with lateral edge regions of various solar modules (11, 12) resting on two flange or face areas thereof facing away from a roof area.


9. A support arrangement according to claim 8, wherein a hollow space (23) is formed by partial profiles of the support profile (2) supporting the solar modules (11, 12) underneath of at least one of the receptacles (9, 10), each extending over a length of the support profile (2), which drains liquid or flowing media supplied via the module surface or the support elements (22) in a direction of broadsides of the support profile (2) such that the support profile (2) forms a tight roof skin for a covered roof area with the profile element (7), the solar modules (11, 12) and the support elements.


10. A support arrangement according to claim 9, wherein in an extension of the bar (18), pointing away from the covered roof area, a guiding device (25) is provided extending along the support profile (2).


11. A support arrangement according to claim 10, wherein the support profile (2) is arranged at a frame (17) connected to the roof structure.


12. A support arrangement according to claim 10, wherein in an arrangement at a sloped roof area the first receptacle (9) of the support profile (2) forms the lower receptacle of the first solar module (11) located higher in reference to a second solar module (12). 

