
The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array includes a longitudinal support that may be constructed of discrete sections. The overall length of the array may be adjusted depending upon the necessary size of the array. A drive may be configured to rotate the longitudinal support in first and second directions about a first axis. Solar cell modules are positioned along the longitudinal support and may each include a rectangular case with a plurality of lenses that are positioned over corresponding receivers. Linkages may be connected to the solar cell modules and are axially movable along the longitudinal support to rotate the solar cell modules within second planes that each orthogonal to the first plane to further track the sun during the course of the day. The array may be configured to facilitate rotation about the first axis. The array may be constructed with a center of gravity of the array to extending through the longitudinal support.



1. A terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array comprising:
a longitudinal support constructed from a plurality of discrete sections placed in an end-to-end configuration;
a drive chain operatively connected to the longitudinal support to rotate the longitudinal support about a first axis in first and second rotational directions;
a plurality of mounts connected to the longitudinal support and spaced apart along a length of the longitudinal support for securing the array to a mounting surface;
a plurality of solar cell array modules coupled to the longitudinal support, each of said solar cell modules comprising a rectangular case with a plurality of lenses positioned over corresponding receivers;
a string of linkages spaced apart from the longitudinal support and connecting together each of the plurality of mounts, each of the linkages including a discrete length;
the longitudinal support being rotatable about the first axis by the drive chain to simultaneously move each of the solar cell modules to track the sun within a first plane during the course of a day; and
the string of linkages being movable axially along the longitudinal support to rotate each of the plurality of mounts and the connected solar cell modules within second planes that are each orthogonal to the first plane to track the sun during the course of the day.



2. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, further comprising a linear actuator connected to the drive chain to move the drive chain and thereby rotate the longitudinal support by an axial angle in excess of 180°.


3. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, further comprising a frame pivotably connected to the longitudinal support for supporting four solar array modules.


4. An array as defined in claim 2, wherein the linear actuator includes a movable shaft having first and second rolling members disposed on opposite sides thereof.


5. An array as defined in claim 2, wherein the linear actuator is attached to and supported on one of said mounts.


6. An array as defined in claim 5, wherein said one mount includes a first linear track engaging the first rolling member.


7. An array as defined in claim 6, wherein said one mount includes a second linear track engaging the second rolling member.


8. An array as defined in claim 7, wherein said first linear track is disposed on a first side of the first and second rolling members, and said second linear track is disposed on a second opposite side of the first and second rolling members.


9. An array as defined in claim 7, wherein said first and second linear tracks are parallel.


10. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, wherein the drive chain functions as an anti-backlash mechanism connected to the longitudinal support to counteract a force acting on the longitudinal support caused by the distribution of mass of the plurality of solar cell modules after the longitudinal support is rotated by the drive beyond a predetermined rotational position.


11. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 2, wherein the drive chain is configured for the linear actuator to apply a constant torque on the longitudinal support during movement in the first rotational direction between a first rotational position at a beginning of a day and a second rotational position at an end of a day.


12. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, wherein a center of gravity of the array is positioned along the longitudinal support.


13. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, wherein the drive chain maintains a constant potential energy level of the array.


14. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, further comprising a controller operatively connected to the drive and the string of linkages to control rotation of the longitudinal support about the first axis and the axial movement of the string of linkages.


15. The terrestrial solar tracking photovoltaic array of claim 1, wherein the longitudinal support is a pipe with a diameter of about 4 inches with a coaxial first circular sprocket gear for engaging the drive chain.


16. An array as defined in claim 15, further comprising a second circular sprocket gear mounted on the vertical support for engaging the drive chain.


17. An array as defined in claims 16, wherein said second circular sprocket gear has a smaller diameter than said first circular sprocket gear.


18. An array as defined in claim 5, further comprising a housing covering at least a portion of the linear actuator and mounted on said one mounted.


19. An array as defined in claim 18, wherein the interior surface of said housing forms a track for engaging the second rolling member.


20. An array as defined in claim 15, further comprising a housing covering the first circular sprocket gear.

