
A photovoltaic module includes a support member for securing a photovoltaic cell. The support member includes a plurality of holes extending through at least a portion of the support member. A mounting system includes a buss bar for coupling the photovoltaic module to a power transmission system.



1. A photovoltaic (PV) module, comprising:
a) a layer of an optically transparent material;
b) a photovoltaic cell adjacent to said layer of the optically transparent material, said photovoltaic cell configured to generate electricity upon exposure to light;
c) a dielectric layer adjacent to said photovoltaic cell;
d) a metal foil adjacent to the dielectric layer, said metal foil for providing a moisture barrier;
e) a support member adjacent to said metal foil;
f) an edge seal between said layer of the optically transparent material and said metal foil; and
g) an electrical connection member in electric communication with said photovoltaic cell, said electrical connection member for electrically coupling said photovoltaic cell to an electric buss bar.



2. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said support member comprises through holes in a honeycomb configuration.


3. (canceled)


4. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said photovoltaic cell is a thin film photovoltaic cell.


5. (canceled)


6. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said dielectric layer includes polyethylene terephthalate.


7. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said metal foil includes aluminum.


8. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said support member is formed of a polymeric material.


9.-10. (canceled)


11. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said support member includes a thin back sheet with convective heat ventilation holes.


12.-14. (canceled)


15. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said layer of the optically transparent material is formed of tempered glass.


16. (canceled)


17. The PV module of claim 1, wherein said layer of the optically transparent material is formed of a transparent flexible moisture barrier sheet.


18. A photovoltaic module, comprising:
a photovoltaic (PV) cell having an active material for generating electricity upon exposure of the PV cell to light; and
a support member adjacent to said PV cell, said support member for providing structural support to said PV cell, said support member having a plurality of holes extending through said support member, an individual hole of said plurality of holes defined by a wall having at least one side.



19. The PV module of claim 18, wherein said support member is formed of a polymeric material.


20. The PV module of claim 18, wherein said plurality of holes are in a honeycomb configuration.


21. (canceled)


22. The PV module of claim 18, wherein said support member comprises a support structure having said plurality of holes and a sheet adjacent to said support structure and disposed away from said PV cell, wherein each of said plurality of holes of said support structure has a width (W).


23. The PV module of claim 22, wherein said sheet has holes aligned with said plurality of holes of said support structure, an individual hole of said plurality of holes of said sheet having a diameter (D), wherein D is less than W.


24. The PV module of claim 18, wherein said wall has at least three sides.


25.-27. (canceled)


28. The PV module of claim 18, wherein said support member includes a ridge encircling said PV cell, a light receiving surface of said PV cell below said ridge.


29.-52. (canceled)


53. A photovoltaic array, comprising:
a mounting frame;
a buss bar secured against said mounting frame, said buss bar for providing power distribution; and
a plurality of photovoltaic (PV) modules secured against said mounting frame and electrically coupled to said buss bar, an individual PV module of said plurality of PV modules having a support member for providing structural support to a PV cell of said individual PV module, said support member having a plurality of holes extending through said support member.



54. The PV array of claim 53, wherein said mounting frame comprises a first and second support member and a third support member disposed between said first and second support members, wherein said buss bar is secured against said third support member.


55. The PV array of claim 54, wherein said first, second and third support members have circular cross-sections.


56. (canceled)


57. The PV array of claim 53, wherein said plurality of PV modules are each electrically coupled to said buss bar with the aid of an electrical attachment member coupled to an electrical receptacle of said buss bar.


58.-68. (canceled)

