
A panel assembly for mounting to the façade of a building which includes a panel member having a longitudinal axis, at least one opening through the panel member for receiving a fitting which is operatively engaged to a connection assembly, and an anchoring assembly receiving the connection assembly and securing the same to the façade.



1. A panel assembly for mounting to the façade of a building comprising:
a) a panel member having a longitudinal axis;
b) at least one opening through the panel member positioned in an area proximate to the longitudinal axis;
c) a fitting having a first end portion extending into the opening and opposed second end portion;
d) a connection assembly operatively engaged to the fitting at said opposed second end portion; and
e) an anchoring assembly for receiving the connection assembly and securing the same to the façade of the building.



2. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein the panel member is made of glass.


3. The panel member of claim 1 wherein the panel member is comprised of a plurality of panes with adjacent panes separated by an enclosed airspace.


4. The panel assembly of claim 1 comprising a plurality of openings.


5. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein at least two openings are positioned in an area proximate to the longitudinal axis of the panel member.


6. The panel assembly of claim 4 wherein one of the openings is positioned a distance from the top of the panel member corresponding to between one-seventh and one-third of the length of the panel member.


7. The panel assembly of claim 6 wherein one of the openings is positioned a distance from the bottom of the panel member corresponding to between one-seventh and one-third of the length of the panel member.


8. The panel assembly of claim 7 wherein the openings are positioned a distance from the top and bottom panel members corresponding to one-sixth to one-quarter of the length of the panel member.


9. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein the opening is cylindrical.


10. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein the connection assembly comprises a stanchion having a first end and connection means for connecting the first end of the stanchion to the fitting.


11. The panel assembly of claim 10 wherein the connection means comprises a first portion operatively engaged to the stanchion and a second portion circumscribing a portion of the fitting.


12. The panel assembly of claim 10 further comprising anchoring means for anchoring the stanchion to the façade of the building.


13. The panel assembly of claim 12 wherein the anchoring means comprises an anchoring assembly comprising a stanchion receiving portion for securing the stanchion to the anchoring assembly and a façade securing portion for securing the anchoring assembly to the façade.


14. The panel assembly of claim 10 wherein the stanchion has a second end remote from the first end, said second end adapted to engage a second fitting operatively engaged to a second panel member.


15. The panel assembly of claim 1 further comprising a frame operatively engaged to the first end of the fitting.


16. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein the fitting is at least partially hollow and thereby provides a pathway through the panel member.


17. The panel assembly of claim 15 wherein the frame is spaced apart from the panel member.


18. The panel assembly of claim 17 wherein the frame comprises a solar device.


19. The panel assembly of claim 15 further comprising electrical power means extending through the fitting to the frame.


20. A panel assembly for mounting to the façade of a building comprising:
a) a plurality of panel members arranged in at least one vertical row;
b) at least one opening through each of the panel members, said at least one opening positioned proximate to the longitudinal axis of the panel member;
c) a fitting being at least partially hollow having a first end portion extending into each of the openings and an opposed second end portion;
d) a connection assembly operatively engaged to the fitting at said opposed second end portion;
e) an anchoring assembly for receiving the connection assembly and securing the same to the façade;
f) closure means positioned between adjacent upper and lower panel members for sealing the adjacent panel members together; and
g) vertical sealing means positioned between adjacent panel members for sealing the adjacent panel members together.



21. The panel assembly of claim 20 wherein the closure means comprises:
a) an elongated bar extending the width of the panel member, said bar having a rear side with a track therein for receiving a slidable plate;
b) a slidable plate movable within the track to a position wherein the slidable plate lies within adjacent tracks of adjacent panel members; and
c) securing means for securing the slidable plate within the adjacent tracks to the façade to thereby prevent rotational movement of the adjacent panel members. 


