
A junction box for a solar panel comprises a housing, a lid, a first connector and a second connector. The housing comprises sidewalls and a top wall defining an interior space. The first coupling comprises a first contact element and the second coupling comprises a second contact element. Said contact elements penetrate at least one of the sidewalls, so that the contact elements provide an electrical contact from external contact elements to internal contact elements, such as solder tails. Internal contact elements are arranged at least partially in said interior space. The top wall comprises an opening extending only partially in said top wall. Said opening is located such in the top wall that access to said solder tails in a substantially perpendicular direction to the surface of a solar panel for connecting the solder tail to the solar panel is provided.



1-20. (canceled)


21. Junction box for a solar panel comprising
a housing comprising sidewalls and a top wall defining an interior space;
a lid;
internal contact elements which are arranged at least partially in said interior space;
a first coupling comprising a first contact element; and
a second coupling comprising a second contact element;
wherein said contact elements penetrate at least one of the sidewalls, so that the contact elements provide an electrical contact from external contact elements to said internal contact elements;
wherein said top wall comprises an opening extending only partially in said top wall, such that access to said solder tails in a substantially perpendicular direction to the surface of a solar panel for connecting the solder tail to the solar panel is provided.



22. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the top wall comprises an outer sidewall that extends substantially perpendicular from the top wall and that surrounds substantially the outer circumference of the top wall, so that an overflow space is defined by the top wall and the outer sidewall.


23. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the opening is substantially surrounded by an inner sidewall which extends substantially perpendicular from said top wall.


24. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein a filling material is injectable into the interior space through said opening, so that the interior space is fully filled with said filling material, and wherein the opening is closeable with the lid.


25. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the lid comprises a wall extending substantially perpendicular to the lid and having a shape that fits into or around the opening in the top surface.


26. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the lid comprises further embossments that are arranged such that they extend through the opening into the interior space when being mounted onto the housing, wherein due to said further embossments filling material is forced to flow through the opening into the overflow space, when said lid is mounted onto the housing filled with the filling material.


27. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the first coupling and the second coupling are connected to sidewalls, wherein the sidewalls comprise holes in order to allow the contact element to extend into the interior space.


28. Junction box according to claim 27, wherein the first coupling extends along a first axis and the second coupling extends along a second axis, wherein a first external contact element is introducible into the first coupling along the first axis and a second external contact element is introducible into the second coupling along the second axis and wherein the first axis and the second axis are arranged such that they are angular with an angle α that is between 5° and 170° in a common plane.


29. Junction box according to claim 28, wherein in particular between 75° and 125°.


30. Junction box according to claim 29, wherein the common plane is parallel to the bottom wall.


31. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein parts of the solder tail extend from the interior space through a bottom opening in the bottom wall over the surface of the bottom wall.


32. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the solder tail comprises a resilient section, so that the parts of the solder tail that extend over the bottom side are moveable with respect to the bottom side.


33. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein the contact element of the first coupling is connected with a diode to the contact element of the second coupling, wherein the diode is arranged such that the diode is covered by parts of the top wall.


34. Method for manufacturing a junction box according to claim 21, wherein the method comprises the steps of
providing the first coupling with a first contact element and the second coupling with a second contact element;
connecting the first coupling and the second coupling with the housing;
providing each of the contact elements with a solder tail;
affixing the diode at the first contact element and at the second contact element.



35. Method for providing a solar panel with a junction box according to claim 21, wherein the method comprises the steps of:
applying adhesive to the junction box base perimeter or flange;
arranging the junction box on a surface of a solar panel module;
affixing solder tail to the contacts of a solar panel, preferably in perpendicular direction;
filling the interior space of the housing with a filling material, preferably completely; and
mounting the lid on the top wall, so that parts of the lid, extend into the interior space of the housing.



36. Photovoltaic solar panel comprising at least a carrier layer and a solar cell that is arranged on the front side of said carrier layer, wherein a junction box according to claim 21, is arranged on the back side of said carrier layer.


37. Photovoltaic solar panel according to claim 36, wherein the bottom side of the junction box faces the back side of said carrier layer and wherein the carrier layer comprises openings through which the solder elements are passed through to the solar cell.


38. Solder element for providing an electrical connection between a first electrical device and a second electrical device, wherein the solder element comprises a cylindrically shaped contact zone to be contacted to the first electrical device, a resilient zone and a cylindrically shaped transfer zone having a solder zone to be contacted to the second electrical device, wherein the axes of the contact zone and of the transfer zone are axially arranged in alignment of a longitudinal axis and wherein the resilient zone enables adjustment of the axial distance between the contact zone and the solder zone.


39. Solder element according to claim 38, wherein the resilient zone is arranged between the contact zone and the solder zone.


40. Solder element according to claim 38, wherein the resilient zone is designed as a bending structure, wherein bending of said bending structure results in said adjustment.


41. Solder element according to claim 38, wherein the resilient section comprises at least one, preferably at least two, even more preferably at least three to six, resilient web.


42. Method for producing a solder element according claim 38, wherein the solder element is produced by a stamping and/or forming process.


43. Junction box according to claim 21, wherein said lid is arranged to cover at least said opening.

