
A free-standing solar tracker comprises a base, a support frame, a panel assembly comprising one or more solar panels, and an actuator to rotate the panel assembly to track the movement of the sun. The solar tracker is designed to be free-standing and requires no foundation. When the solar tracker is deployed, the base forms a pan to contain a ballast material for holding the base in place. The base of the solar tracker is designed to serve as a “suitcase” to contain most of the components of the solar tracker, making it easier to transport the solar tracker 10 to a location where the solar tracker is installed.



1. A solar tracker comprising:
a base forming an open pan for containing a ballast material;
a support frame mounted to said base;
a panel assembly rotatably mounted to said support frame, said panel assembly including a plurality of solar panels; and
an actuator assembly for rotating the panel assembly to track the movement of the sun.



2. The solar tracker of claim 1 wherein said base comprises first and second sections that are movable between a storage position and deployed position, wherein the base forms said open pan in the deployed position for holding the ballast material and forms a carrier in the storage position including a closed compartment for containing disassembled components of the support frame and panel assembly.


3. The solar tracker of claim 2 wherein the panel assembly comprises:
a central spine rotatably mounted to the support frame; and
a plurality of panel carriers extending outwardly from said spine for supporting said solar panels.



4. The solar tracker of claim 3 wherein panel carriers are removably connected to the spine and are configured to fit inside said closed compartment when said base is in the storage position.


5. The solar tracker assembly of claim 3 including a mounting assembly for rotatably mounting the panel assembly to the support frame, said mounting assembly comprising:
a mounting fork configured to be pivotally connected to said support frame; and
a slot in said mounting fork configured to receive the spine of the panel assembly.



6. The solar tracker assembly of claim 2 wherein the support frame includes two spaced end frames configured to be removably connected at respective ends of the base when the base is in the deployed position.


7. The solar tracker of claim 6 wherein the support frame includes two or more frame members that can be disassembled and placed inside said compartment of said base when said base is in the storage position.


8. The solar tracker of claim 1 wherein the panel assembly is mounted to rotate about an inclined rotational axis lying in a plane perpendicular to the base such that the rotation of the panel assembly tracks changes in the azimuth of the sun.


9. A solar system comprising:
a base having first and second section configurable in a deployed position and a storage position, said base forming an open pan for containing a ballast material in the deployed position and forming a carrier having an internal compartment ion the storage position;
a support frame removably mounted to said base, said support frame including one or more frame members configured to be contained in the internal compartment of the base when the base is configured in a storage position; and
a panel assembly removably mounted to said support frame, said panel assembly including an array of solar panels.



10. The solar system of claim 9 wherein the panel assembly comprises a central spine rotatably mounted to the support frame; and a plurality of panel carriers extending outwardly from said spine for supporting said solar panels.


11. The solar system of claim 10 wherein panel carriers are removably connected to the spine and are configured to fit inside said internal compartment of said base when said base is in the storage position.


12. A solar system comprising:
a base comprising one or more base beams that rest on an underlying support surface;
a support frame mounted to said base;
a panel assembly mounted to said support frame, said panel assembly including a plurality of solar panels; and
one or more ballast containers configured to straddle at least one of the base beams for containing a ballast material to hold said solar tracker in place.



13. The solar system of claim 12 said panel assembly is rotatably mounted to said frame and further comprising an actuator assembly for rotating the panel assembly to track the movement of the sun.


14. The solar tracker of claim 13 wherein the panel assembly comprises a central spine rotatably mounted to the support frame; and a plurality of panel carriers extending outwardly from said spine for supporting said solar panels.


15. The solar tracker assembly of claim 14 including a mounting assembly for rotatably mounting the panel assembly to the support frame, said mounting assembly comprising:
a mounting fork configured to be pivotally connected to said support frame; and
a slot in said mounting fork configured to receive the spine of the panel assembly.



16. The solar tracker assembly of claim 15 wherein the support frame includes two spaced end frames configured to be removably connected at respective ends of the base when the base is in the deployed position.


17. The solar tracker of claim 12 wherein the panel assembly is mounted to rotate about an inclined rotational axis lying in a plane perpendicular to the base such that the rotation of the panel assembly tracks changes in the azimuth of the sun. 

