
A photovoltaic (PV) monitoring system performs dark current and dark IV testing of PV installations; computes the passive electrical characteristics of the installed array; determines the performance status and likely cause of underperformance; and communicates the collected data.



1. A system for the in-situ monitoring of the passive electrical parameters of one or more installed PV modules, the system comprising: the in-situ electrical wiring; a means for periodically applying through said wiring a non-PV electrical stimulus; and
a means for computing one or more passive electrical parameters of said modules.



2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said stimulus is comprised of a plurality of current magnitudes.


3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said parameters comprise resistance values.


4. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a means for recognizing anomalies in said parameters.


5. The monitoring system of claim 4, further comprising a means for reporting said parameters and said anomalies.


6. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a means for limiting said stimulus-applying to occur during periods of darkness or twilight.


7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said stimulus-applying means is comprised of at least one DC source.


8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said stimulus-applying means is comprised of at least one AC source.


9. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a means for recording a plurality of current-voltage data points that measure the passive response of said modules to said stimulus.


10. The monitoring system of claim 9, wherein said recording means is comprised of at least one current sensor.


11. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising: a means for altering the circuit topology of said modules.


12. The monitoring system of claim 11, wherein said altering means is controlled, in whole or in part, by signals propagated through the PV cells and wires that carry PV generated current.


13. The monitoring system of claim 12, wherein said signals are produced by said stimulus-applying means.


14. The monitoring system of claim 11, wherein said altering means is comprised of one or more switches.


15. The monitoring system of claim 11, wherein said altering means is incorporated into a PV module comprising at least one photovoltaic cell.


16. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said stimulus-applying means is incorporated into a circuit combiner box, transformer box, disconnect box, charge controller box, fuse box, surge protection box, breaker box, inverter box, or other PV system component.


17. A method of determining the health of a PV installation, the method comprising the following steps in the order named: a) selecting a test period during darkness or twilight; b) applying an electrical test stimulus through one or more installed PV modules; d) computing one or more passive electrical parameters of said modules.


18. The method according to claim 17, wherein following the applying step and prior to the computing step is the step of: c) recording a plurality of current-voltage data points that measure the passive response of said modules to said stimulus.


19. The method according to claim 17, wherein said parameters comprise resistance values.


20. A method of altering the circuit topology of a PV installation comprising one or more installed PV modules, the method comprising the following steps in the order named: a) selecting a signaling period during darkness or twilight; b) signaling one or more switches in the PV installation to toggle. 

