
A solar panel mounting system has a plurality of mounting bases which have upper and lower mounting surfaces. In the minimum configuration, four mounting bases are used. A solar panel module is connected to the top portion of two bases and to the bottom portion so that the solar panel module is mounted at a selected angle. Each of the bases has attachment points which hold insert nuts and allows mounting brackets to be secured along the mounting surfaces. The mounting brackets allow the solar panel modules to be clamped utilizing their frames without additional hardware and to be attached from the top without access to the bottom of the panels. The brackets can be industry standard or specific to the system. The bases stack and nest for easy transport. The mounting bases may be secured to a selected surface using ballasts, mechanical attachments or a combination thereof.



1. A solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame comprises:
at least four mounting bases;
each of said four mounting bases having an upper mounting surface and a lower mounting surface; wherein said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface being adapted to hold a solar panel module having a frame an angle therein;
a plurality of attachment points disposed along a top facing upper edge portion of said mounting bases; and
a clamping means for securing a solar panel module to at least one of said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface.



2. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 1 wherein said clamping means for securing a solar panel module to at least one of said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface comprises:
at least one clamp adapted to fit against an outside edge of said frame; and
at least one slider clip;
said slider clip having a holding portion and a slotted portion wherein said holding portion fits over a lower portion of said frame; and
at least one fastener adapted to secure said at least one slider clip through said slotted portion and said at least one clamp wherein said frame is securely held to said mounting base at another attachment point.



3. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 1 wherein said clamping means for securing a solar panel module to at least one of said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface comprises:
at least one frame clip having a hook portion that resiliently holds an inside bottom edge of said frame; and
at least one fastener adapted to secure said at least one frame clip wherein said frame is securely held to said mounting base at another attachment point.



4. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 2 wherein said clamping means for securing a solar panel module to at least one of said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface further comprises at least one mid-clamp adapted to attach to one of said attachment points.


5. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 3 wherein said clamping means for securing a solar panel module to at least one of said upper mounting surface and said lower mounting surface further comprises at least one mid-clamp adapted to attach to one of said attachment points.


6. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 1 further comprising a ballast disposed within said mounting base.


7. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 6 wherein said ballast is removable.


8. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 1 wherein said mounting base has a plurality of channels in a bottom portion therein wherein water is directed along said plurality of channels.


9. The solar panel mounting system for mounting solar panel modules having a frame according to claim 1 wherein said mounting bases are adapted to stack and nest for transport.

