
Provided are a charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment, a method of operating the same, and a duplex converter for charging and discharging electricity into/from a battery. The system includes: an electricity price monitoring part which collects electricity price information from an electric grid; an electricity charge amount monitoring part which collects electricity charge amount information of a battery; a charge and discharge determination part which determines whether electricity supplied from the electric grid is to be charged into the battery or whether electricity stored in the battery via the electric grid or the solar light power generator is to be discharged to the electric grid, based on the price information and the charge amount information; and a charging and discharging part including the battery, so that electricity is charged into or discharged from the battery based on the determination.



1. A charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment with real-time pricing, the charging and discharging system comprising:
an electricity price monitoring part which collects electricity price information from an electric grid;
an electricity charge amount monitoring part which collects electricity charge amount information of a battery of the charging and discharging system;
a charge and discharge determination part which determines, based on the collected electricity price information and the collected electricity charge amount information, whether electricity supplied from the electric grid is to be charged into the battery or whether electricity stored in the battery via at least one of the electric grid and the solar light power generator is to be discharged to the electric grid; and
a charging and discharging part which selectively performs one of charging the battery and discharging the battery based on the determination made by the charge and discharge determination part.



2. The charging and discharging system of claim 1, further comprising a metering part which measures electricity usage based on an amount of electricity charged into the battery and an amount of electricity discharged from the battery and which calculates an electricity price based on the measured electricity usage.


3. The charging and discharging system of claim 2, wherein the electricity price monitoring part collects electricity price information that varies with time from the electric grid, and the metering part calculates the electricity price based on the collected electricity price information that varies with time.


4. The charging and discharging system of claim 3, wherein when the electricity is charged into the battery, the metering part performs a forward measurement based on the amount of the charged electricity, and when the electricity is discharged from the battery, the metering part performs a backward measurement based on the amount of the discharged electricity, and the metering part measures the amount of electricity so that the electricity price is calculated differently depending on the collected electricity price information that varies with time.


5. The charging and discharging system of claim 1, wherein the electricity price monitoring part collects electricity price information varying with time from the electric grid, and the charge and discharge determination part determines to discharge the electricity stored in the battery when the collected electricity price information varying with time is larger than a preset value, and determines to charge the battery with the electricity when the collected electricity price information is smaller than or equal to a preset value.


6. The charging and discharging system of claim 5, wherein the charge and discharge determination part determines whether the electricity is to be charged into the battery or is to be discharged from the battery by calculating an average value of collected electricity price information varying with time for a preset period and comparing the average value to a present electricity price.


7. The charging and discharging system of claim 1, wherein the charging and discharging part adjusts a rate of discharge when the electricity is discharged from the battery.


8. A duplex converter for charging and discharging electricity into/from a battery of a charging and discharging part of a charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment with real-time pricing, the duplex converter comprising:
a transformer coupled to an electric grid and the battery and which transforms and outputs a signal supplied from the electric grid or a signal supplied from the battery;
a charge and discharge selection switch which is selectively on or off depending on whether the electricity is charged into or discharged from the battery and which is connected to a node for dividing a coil of the transformer on a battery side;
charge switching elements which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of the signal supplied from the electric grid when the electricity is charged into the battery; and
discharge switching elements which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of the signal supplied from the battery when the electricity is discharged from the battery.



9. The duplex converter of claim 8, wherein the battery comprises two batteries separated by a neutral line, and the two batteries are alternately charged based on an operation of the charge switching elements, and are alternately discharged based on an operation of the discharge switching elements.


10. The duplex converter of claim 8, wherein a number of turns of a coil of the transformer on an electric grid side is smaller than a number of turns of the coil of the transformer on the battery side, and is larger than half the number of turns of the coil of the transformer on the battery side.


11. The duplex converter of claim 8, wherein the charge and discharge selection switch is shorted out when the electricity is charged into the battery, and is opened when the electricity is discharged from the battery.


12. The duplex converter of claim 8, wherein a tip of the transformer on the battery side is connected, via an inductor, between the charge switching elements and between the discharge switching elements.


13. A duplex converter for charging and discharging electricity into/from a battery of a charging and discharging part of a charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment with real-time pricing, the duplex converter comprising:
charge switching elements which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of a signal supplied from a smart grid when the electricity is charged into the battery; and
discharge switching elements which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of a signal supplied from the battery when the electricity stored in the battery is discharged to the smart grid,
wherein when at least one of the charge switching elements is turned on, a voltage of the smart grid is raised and charged into the battery by control of pulse width modulation to adjust a turn-on time and a turn-off time of the turned-on at least one charge switching element and by voltages stored in capacitors when the battery is charged, and
when at least one of the discharge switching elements is turned on, the raised voltage of the battery is discharged to the smart grid by control of pulse width modulation to adjust the turn-on time and the turn-off time of the turned-on at least one discharge switching element.



14. The duplex converter of claim 13, further comprising an inductor connected between the charge switching elements and between the discharge switching elements,
wherein a phase of a signal discharged from the battery leads a phase of a signal of the smart grid by the inductor.



15. A method of charging and discharging electricity into/from a battery of a charging and discharging part of a charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment with real-time pricing, the method comprising:
receiving electricity price information from an electric grid;
receiving electricity charge amount information of the battery;
determining whether electricity is to be purchased from the electric grid or whether electricity stored in the battery via at least one of the electric grid and the solar light power generator is to be sold to the electric grid, based on the received electricity price information and the received electricity charge amount information; and
selectively performing one of charging and discharging the battery, based on a result of the determining.



16. The method of claim 15, wherein the received electricity price information varies with time.


17. A computer readable recording medium having recorded thereon a program executable by a computer for performing the method of claim 15.


18. A method of charging and discharging electricity into/from a battery of a charging and discharging part of a charging and discharging system for a solar light power generator in a smart grid environment with real-time pricing, the method comprising:
charging switching elements, of a duplex converter, which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of a signal supplied from a smart grid when the electricity is charged into the battery; and
discharging switching elements, of the duplex converter, which are selectively turned on or off based on a waveform of a signal supplied from the battery when the electricity stored in the battery is discharged to the smart grid,
wherein when at least one of the charge switching elements is turned on, a voltage of the smart grid is raised and charged into the battery by control of pulse width modulation to adjust a turn-on time and a turn-off time of the turned-on at least one charge switching element and by voltages stored in capacitors when the battery is charged, and
when at least one of the discharge switching elements is turned on, the raised voltage of the battery is discharged to the smart grid by control of pulse width modulation to adjust the turn-on time and the turn-off time of the turned-on at least one discharge switching element. 


