
A junction box for electrically connecting a photovoltaic (PV) module to a power distribution system, the PV module having a plurality of conductors for electrically connecting the PV module to the junction box. The junction box includes a housing having a mounting side configured to be mounted on the PV module and a power transfer structure mounted within the housing. The power transfer structure includes a plurality of conductive connectors and a transfer interface. Each conductive connector forms an electrical interface to the PV module. The transfer interface couples the junction box to the power distribution system. The junction box also includes a user-removable control board mounted within the housing. The power transfer structure interfaces with said control board to convey power from the PV module to the control board.



1. A junction box for electrically connecting a photovoltaic (PV) module to a power distribution system, the PV module having a plurality of conductors for electrically connecting the PV module to the junction box, said junction box comprising:
a housing having a mounting side configured to be mounted on the PV module;
a power transfer structure mounted within the housing, the power transfer structure including a plurality of conductive connectors and a transfer interface, wherein each of said plurality of conductive connectors forms an electrical interface to the PV module and wherein said transfer interface couples the junction box to said power distribution system; and
a user-removable control board mounted within the housing, wherein said power transfer structure interfaces with said control board to convey power from the PV module to the control board via the power transfer structure.



2. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 wherein said power transfer structure comprises a power transfer board, said conductive connectors comprise foil connectors each of which has a foil receptacle and foil output, the foil receptacle configured to receive and electrically connect to a corresponding foil conductor, and said transfer interface has transfer inputs and transfer outputs, at least one transfer input being electrically coupled to a respective foil connector output, and said control board including a mating connector configured to mate with the transfer interface.


3. A junction box in accordance with claim 2, wherein the mating connector is configured to engage and disengage from the transfer interface separate and independent from the electrical connection of the foil conductor to the foil receptacle.


4. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a pair of system connectors, each of the system connectors having an input and an output, the system connector inputs configured to mate with a respective mating connector of the power distribution system, the system connector outputs being configured to electrical couple to the transfer interface.


5. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a pair of guides coupled to the power transfer structure, the pair of guides configured to align the transfer interface with the mating connector.


6. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a cover configured to couple to the control board, the cover being fabricated from an electrically insulating, thermally conductive material to dissipate heat generated by the control board.


7. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 wherein the control board comprises a shut-off circuit operable to interrupt power transfer between the PV module and the power transfer structure.


8. A junction box in accordance with claim 7 wherein the shut-off circuit comprises a first FET or other semiconductor switch and a second FET or other semiconductor switch, the first switch being configured to short circuit the PV module, the second switch being configured to electrically bypass the PV module.


9. A junction box in accordance with claim 7 wherein the shut-off circuit comprises a three-stage FET or semiconductor switch, a first stage of the three-stage semiconductor switch configured to be in a closed position when a second stage of the three-stage semiconductor switch is in an open position.


10. A junction box in accordance with claim 7 wherein the shut-off circuit comprises a pair of electrical/mechanical relays.


11. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 wherein the PV module comprises a plurality of substrings, the junction box further comprising a transistor coupled to at least one of the substrings, the transistor configured to electrically isolate the substring based on a signal received from a remote location.


12. A junction box in accordance with claim 11 further comprising an isolation power converter coupled to the transistor, the isolation power converter configured to operate the transistor based on a user input.


13. A junction box in accordance with claim 11 further comprising an isolation power converter coupled to the transistor, the isolation power converter configured to monitor the power output from at least one of the substrings and automatically isolate the substring when a power output from the substring decreases below a predetermined threshold.


14. A junction box in accordance with claim 11 further comprising an isolation power converter coupled to the transistor, the isolation power converter configured to receive electrical power from a power supply that is mounted on at least one of the control board and the power transfer board.


15. A junction box in accordance with claim 11 further comprising:
an isolation power converter coupled to the transistor, the isolation power converter configured to open and close the transistor; and
a processor coupled to the isolation power converter, the processor configured to activate and deactivate the isolation power converter based on a signal received from a user.



16. A junction box in accordance with claim 11 further comprising an isolation power converter coupled to the transistor, the isolation power converter including a DC/DC converter configured to receive electrical power from a power supply and transform the electrical power to a power level to operate the transistor.


17. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 wherein the PV module is electrically coupled to an end user utilizing a power line, the junction box further configured to receive a communication signal from a safety isolation device over the power line and control the operation of the PV module based on the communication signal.


18. A junction box in accordance with claim 1 wherein the control board is configured to receive an input from a PV array, to determine a maximum power point (MPP) based on the received input, and to utilize a power converter to adjust an output from the PV module to substantially match the MPP for the PV array.


19. A junction box in accordance with claim 18 wherein the power converter comprises a pair of field effect transistors (FETs), the pair of FETs being operable in a first configuration to transmit an electrical signal through an isolation transformer, and operable in a second configuration to electrically isolate the PV module from the PV array.


20. A junction box in accordance with claim 18 further comprising a cover configured to couple to the control board, the cover being fabricated from a thermally conductive material to dissipate heat generated by the control board.


21. An electrical isolation device for coupling to at least one PV module, said device comprising:
a junction box; and
a safety isolation device coupled to the junction box, the safety isolation device configured to transmit a communication signal to the junction box, the junction box configured to operate the PV module in a first or second mode based on the communication signal.



22. An electrical isolation device in accordance with claim 21 wherein the electrical isolation device is configured to transmit said communication signal over a power line.


23. An electrical isolation device in accordance with claim 21 wherein the electrical isolation device is configured to wirelessly transmit said communication signal.


24. An electrical isolation device in accordance with claim 21 wherein the junction box further comprises a three-stage relay configured to electrically isolate the PV module when the communication signal is interrupted.

