
A high efficiency, environmentally friendly system comprising a plurality of photovoltaic solar collecting panels (PV panels) is disclosed. The system comprises an outer frame to which a plurality of inner frames are mounted to which the plurality of PV panels are attached. To minimize shadowing by the outer frame upon one or more PV panels, at least one PV panel may extend beyond an endpoint of the main frame. The system also comprises an outer frame rotation actuator that rotates the outer frame and an inner frame rotation actuator that rotates the inner frames and the plurality of PV panels. The solar tracking array frames disclosed herein help to improve the quality of the environment by conserving a variety of energy resources (e.g., fossil fuels, hydroelectric energy, etc.) The solar tracking array frames disclosed herein also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as solar tracking array frames do not produce carbon dioxide byproducts.



1. A system comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic solar collecting panels (PV panels);
a plurality of inner frames to which the plurality of PV panels are coupled;
an outer frame to which the plurality of inner frames are coupled, wherein at least one PV panel extends beyond an endpoint of the outer frame to minimize shadowing by the outer frame;
an outer frame rotation actuator that rotates the outer frame about an axis; an inner frame rotation actuator that rotates the plurality of inner frames about an axis.



2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller that determines a position of the sun relative to a sun sensor and adjusts at least one of: an angle of the outer frame and an angle of the inner frame so that at least one PV panel is moved in response to the position of the sun.


3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller that determines a position of the sun via an algorithm and adjusts at least one of: an angle of the outer frame and an angle of the inner frame so that at least one PV panel is moved in response to the position of the sun.


4. The system of claim 1, wherein each PV panel in the plurality of PV panels is separated by a distance from neighboring PV panels sufficient to minimize shadowing by each PV panel by and upon the neighboring PV panels.


5. The system of claim 1, wherein each PV panel in the plurality of PV panels is separated by a distance from neighboring PV panels sufficient to prevent shadowing by each PV panel by and upon the neighboring PV panels during an interval that excludes a period after sunrise and a period before sunset.


6. The system of claim 1, wherein the space between the PV panels in the plurality of PV panels allows wind to pass through minimizing the force of the wind on the array.


7. The system of claim 1, wherein the PV panels in the plurality of PV panels can be rotated to a vertical position minimizing the force of wind on the array because the wind passes between the PV panels, because the wind strikes the PC panels at an angle, or because the wind only strikes the single windward panel.


8. The system of claim 1, wherein an azimuthal angle of a PV panel in the plurality of PV panels is backtracked in response to a shadow cast by the PV panel upon a neighboring PV panel.


9. The system of claim 1, wherein an azimuthal angle of a PV panel in the plurality of PV panels is backtracked in response to a time of day.


10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second plurality of PV panels mounted to a second outer frame, wherein the outer frame rotation actuator and the inner frame rotation actuator act upon the second plurality of PV panels and second outer frame.


11. The system of claim 1, wherein the inner frame comprises a first mounting member and a second mounting member to which a PV panel is coupled.


12. The system of claim 1, wherein the inner frame comprises a first mounting member and a second mounting member to which a PV panel is coupled, wherein the first mounting member is joined to the second mounting member by a central axis member.


13. The system of claim 1, wherein the outer frame comprises an upper member and a lower member coupled by a support member, wherein the support member is mounted under the upper member and lower member to reduce shading by the support member upon at least one PV panel in the plurality of PV panels.


14. The system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of PV panels extend beyond an endpoint of the main frame.


15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a portable box that holds the main frame, the plurality of PV panels, the outer frame rotation actuator, the inner frame rotation actuator, and a power supply during a transportation process and acts as a mounting surface after the transportation process.


16. The system of claim 1, further comprising a charge port upon which the system is mounted, wherein the plurality of PV panels shade a vehicle as solar energy collected by the PV panels charges the vehicle.


17. A system comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic solar collecting panels (PV panels);
an upper member and a lower member between which the plurality of PV panels are mounted;
wherein the upper member and the lower member are not coupled to each other at their respective endpoints.



18. A system comprising:
a first plurality of photovoltaic solar collecting panels (PV panels);
a second plurality of PV panels; a first outer frame to which the first plurality of PV panels are coupled;
a second outer frame to which the second plurality of PV panels are coupled;
a connecting rod to which the first plurality of PV panels and the second plurality of PV panels are coupled and through which the first plurality of PV panels and the second plurality of PV panels are imparted a motion; and
a connector to which the first outer frame and the second outer frame are coupled.


