
A photovoltaic module mounting system using clamps to attach the modules to a mounting structure, thereby providing a universal mounting structure for use with laminate or framed modules of differing shapes and sizes, from different manufacturers.



1. A photovoltaic module mounting system comprising:
a first rail bracket attached between a first set of two feet;
a second rail bracket attached to a second set of two feet;
a first rail connected between the first and second rail brackets;
a second rail connected between the first and second rail brackets; and
a plurality of clamps attaching at least one photovoltaic module to the first and second rails.



2. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein a rail bracket comprises:
a main member;
a first post attached to a first end of the main member;
a second post attached to a second end of the main member; and
a beam connected between the first and second posts.



3. The mounting system of claim 2, wherein the rail bracket further comprises:
a first square mounting tube on top of the first post; and
a second square mounting tube on top of the second post.



4. The mounting system of claim 2, further comprising a first shade link connected between the first set of feet and a third set of feet, and a second shade link connected between the second set of feet and a fourth set of feet, wherein the shade links attach the mounting system into an integrated array of photovoltaic modules.


5. The mounting system of claim 2, wherein each clamp comprises:
an upper clamp;
an upper elastomeric pad;
a lower clamp having a ridge;
first and second lower clamp elastomeric pads formed to align along each side of the ridge in the lower clamp; and
a fastener to attach the upper and lower clamps, wherein the upper and lower clamp pads are compressed against a photovoltaic module to secure the module in place.



6. The mounting system of claim 2, wherein the second post is longer than the first post.


7. The mounting system of claim 4, further comprising a wind deflector along an edge of the at least one module.


8. The mounting system of claim 2, wherein a roof penetrating attachment is connected to the first and second rails.


9. The mounting system of claim 8, wherein the roof penetrating attachment comprises:
a post;
a bracket attached to a top of the post, the bracket comprising two spaced vertical slots;
a rod having a horizontal slot; and
a locking member attached through the two vertical slots of the bracket and through the horizontal slot of the rod.



10. The mounting system of claim 2, further comprising a ballast pan attached between the first and second rails.


11. The mounting system of claim 10, wherein the ballast pan comprises:
a first rod connected between the first and second rails;
a second rod connected between the first and second rails; and
a pan attached to the first and second rods.



12. A photovoltaic module mounting system for mounting framed photovoltaic panels, the system comprising:
a first set of two feet, each foot in the first set having a first post;
a second set of two feet, each foot in the second set having a second post;
a first rail link connected between one first foot and one second foot;
a second rail link connected between one first foot and one second foot;
a first rail connected between two first posts;
a second rail connected between two second posts;
a plurality of photovoltaic modules having metal frames positioned on the first and second rails; and
a plurality of clamps attaching the metal frames of the photovoltaic modules to the first and second rails.



13. The mounting system of claim 12, wherein the second posts are taller than the first posts.


14. The mounting system of claim 13, further comprising:
a shade link connected to each of the second feet.



15. The mounting system of claim 14, wherein the shade links interconnect the module mounting system in an integrated array of photovoltaic modules.

