
A photovoltaic (PV) module assembly including a PV module, a deflector, and a clip. The PV module includes a PV device and a frame. A PV laminate is assembled to the frame, and the frame includes a support arm forming a seat. The deflector defines a front face and a rear face, with the clip extending from either the trailing frame member or the rear face of the deflector. In a mounted state, the deflector is nested within the seat and is releasably mounted to the trailing frame member via the clip. In some embodiments, the support arm forms a second seat, with the PV module assembly providing a second mounted state in which the deflector is in a differing orientation/slope, nested within the second seat and releasably mounted to the trailing frame member via the clip.



1. A photovoltaic module assembly for non-penetrating installation to a substantially flat surface, the assembly comprising:
a photovoltaic module including:
a device including a photovoltaic laminate,
a frame assembled to the photovoltaic laminate, the frame including:
framework encompassing a perimeter of the photovoltaic laminate and having a trailing frame member and a leading frame member, first and second support arms extending from the framework and beyond the trailing frame member, the first support arm forming a first seat, and third and fourth support arms extending from the framework and beyond the leading frame member;


a deflector defining a front face and a rear face; and
a clip extending from one of the frame and the rear face of the deflector;
wherein the assembly is configured to provide a first mounted state in which the deflector is nested within the first seat and is releasably mounted to the trailing frame member via the clip.



2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first seat includes side walls forming a slot sized to frictionally receive a portion of the deflector.


3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first support arm further forms a second seat for frictionally receiving a portion of the deflector, the second seat being longitudinally disposed between the trailing frame member and the first seat.


4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein:
the deflector includes opposing, first and second sides and opposing, first and second ends;
the first mounted state includes a portion of the first end disposed within the first seat; and
the assembly is configured to provide a second mounted state in which a portion of the second end is disposed within the second seat and the deflector is releasably mounted to the trailing frame member via the clip.



5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein relative to a transverse plane of the deflector, the rear face includes a first segment extending from the first end to define a first angle and a second segment extending from the second end to define a second angle, and further wherein the first angle and the second angle are different.


6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the first angle is less than the second angle.


7. The assembly of claim 5, wherein a length of the first segment is greater than a length of the second segment.


8. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the first mounted state includes the second segment abutting the trailing frame member and the second mounted state includes the first segment abutting the trailing frame member.


9. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the first and second segments are defined at the first side of the deflector.


10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the first mounted state includes a first portion of the first side disposed within the first seat, and the second mounted state includes a second portion of the first side disposed within the second seat.


11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first support arm forms a mounting region adapted for mounting to a second photovoltaic module, the first seat being longitudinally located between the mounting region and the trailing frame member.


12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first support arm defines a lower face for placement on a flat surface in supporting the photovoltaic laminate relative to the flat surface, the lower face defining a plane that is non-parallel relative to a plane of the photovoltaic laminate.


13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the second support arm forms a seat that is laterally aligned with the first seat of the first support arm and configured to frictionally receive a portion of the deflector.


14. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the clip projects from the trailing frame member and forms a retention section, and further wherein the deflector forms a first receptacle at the rear face sized to receive the retention section in the first mounted state.


15. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the retention section is deflectable from a natural position having a first outer dimension to a deflected position having a second outer dimension less than the first outer dimension, the retention section exhibiting a natural bias from the deflected position toward the natural position, and further wherein the first receptacle is defined by at least one wall member positioned to force the retention section to the deflection position upon insertion of the retention section into the first receptacle in the first mounted state.


16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the clip further includes:
a leg projecting from one of the trailing frame member and the rear face of the deflector, the leg adapted to limit vibration of the deflector in the first mounted state.



17. The assembly of claim 1, wherein an entirety of the deflector is plastic and an entirety of the framework is plastic.


18. A photovoltaic module assembly kit for non-penetrating installation to a substantially flat surface, the kit comprising:
first and second photovoltaic module assemblies each comprising:
a photovoltaic module including:
a device including a photovoltaic laminate,
a frame assembled to the photovoltaic laminate, the frame including:
framework encompassing a perimeter of the photovoltaic laminate and having a trailing frame member and a leading frame member, first and second support arms extending from the framework and beyond the trailing frame member, the first support arm forming a first seat, and third and fourth support arms extending from the framework and beyond the leading frame member;


a deflector defining a front face and a rear face; and
a clip extending from one of the trailing frame member and the rear face of the deflector;
wherein each of the assemblies is configured to provide a first mounted state in which the deflector is nested within the corresponding first seat and is releasably mounted to the corresponding trailing frame member via the corresponding clip.




19. The kit of claim 18, wherein the kit is configured to provide an installed state in which the frame of the first photovoltaic module assembly is connected to the frame of the second photovoltaic module assembly to define a photovoltaic array.


20. The kit of claim 19, wherein the third support arm of each frame is a coupling arm, and further wherein the installed state includes the first support arm of the first photovoltaic module assembly connected to the coupling arm of the second photovoltaic module assembly.


21. The kit of claim 19, wherein the photovoltaic module assemblies are each configured to provide a second mounted state in which the deflector is removably mounted to the corresponding frame at an angle differing from an angle of the first mounted state, and further wherein the installed state further includes the first photovoltaic module assembly arranged in the first mounted state and the second photovoltaic module assembly arranged in the second mounted state.


22. The kit of claim 19, wherein the frame of the photovoltaic module assemblies includes a support face adapted to support the corresponding photovoltaic laminate relative to a flat installation surface, and further wherein a plane of the support face is non-parallel with respect to a plane of the corresponding photovoltaic laminate.


23. The kit of claim 19, wherein the kit is further configured to provide a shipping state in which the framework of the first photovoltaic module assembly is stacked onto the framework of the second photovoltaic module assembly.


24. The kit of claim 23, wherein the shipping state further includes the photovoltaic module assemblies arranged in the first mounted state.

