
A monitoring device for an ungrounded electric network of a photovoltaic system. The monitoring device includes a short circuit measuring circuit having a first electric measuring circuit conductor connecting a first electric pole of the photovoltaic system with a reference point by means of at least one protective component, and second electric measuring circuit conductor for connecting a second electric pole of the photovoltaic system with ground be means of at least one protective component. A first component is connected between one of the measuring circuit conductors and ground, and a measuring device for measuring an electric parameter of the first component, wherein a non-zero value of the parameter and/or a change of the value of the parameter indicate an electric fault between the photovoltaic system and ground.



1. Monitoring device for an ungrounded electric network (2) of a photovoltaic system (4) having a short circuit measuring circuit which comprises a first electric measuring circuit conductor (12) for connecting a first electric pole (8) of the photovoltaic system (4) with a reference point (20) via at least one protective component (13), and a second electric measuring circuit conductor (14) for connecting a second electric pole (10) of the photovoltaic system (4) with a reference point (20) via at least one protective component (13), wherein both measuring circuit conductors (12, 14) form a mutual short between both electric poles (8, 10) of the photovoltaic system,
a first component (16) interconnected between one of the measuring circuit conductors (12, 14) and the reference point (20) and
a measuring device (22) for measuring an electric parameter of the first component (16), wherein an electric fault between the photovoltaic system (4) and the reference point (20) can be detected in response to a value of the parameter non-zero and/or a change of the value of the parameter.



2. Monitoring device according to the previous claim, furthermore having a second component (18) integrated in the second measuring circuit conductor (14) of the short circuit measuring circuit,
wherein the first component (16) for measuring an electric parameter in the first electric measuring circuit conductor (12) is integrated in the short circuit measuring circuit.



3. Monitoring device according to the previous claim, wherein the measuring device (22) is designed for measuring the electric parameter of the first and the second component (16, 18).


4. Monitoring device according to claims 2, wherein the measuring device (22) comprises a comparator circuit (24, 26) for comparing the value of the electric parameter of the first and the second component, wherein the comparator circuit (24, 26) registers an electric fault between the ungrounded electric network (2) and the reference point (20) when electric parameters show different values.


5. Monitoring device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the electric parameter is the electric voltage dropping at the first or second component (16, 18) or the current flowing through the first or second component (16, 18).


6. Monitoring device according to claim 1, wherein the first and/or the second component (16, 18) each are an impedance.


7. Monitoring device according to claim 1, wherein the connection with the reference point (20) is realized by means of a series of protective impedances (13) connected in series in order to bridge creepage and/or clearance paths.


8. Monitoring device according to claim 1, wherein the comparator circuit (24, 26) comprises an analog-to-digital converter (24) for converting the electric parameter into a digital signal, as well as a microcontroller (26) used for comparing the digital signals and/or for calculating deviations.


9. Monitoring device according to claim 1, wherein the measuring and evaluation device comprises an indicator for displaying a fault and/or a protective device for shorting or disconnecting the ungrounded electric network (2) to avert a potential threat for humans and devices.


10. Photovoltaic system (4), comprising at least one photovoltaic module for generating electric current, wherein the electric network (2) of the photovoltaic system (4) is designed as an ungrounded electric network (2) and
the monitoring device according to any one of the preceding claims.



11. Method for safely operating a photovoltaic system (4) with an ungrounded electric network (2), in particular with a monitoring device according to any of claims 1 to 9, comprising the following steps:
measure the electric parameter of the first component (16) by means of the measuring and evaluation device (22)
evaluation of the electric parameter of the first component (16) by means of the measuring and evaluation device (22) in order to determine whether there exists a fault in the ungrounde electric network (2) of the photovoltaic system (4).



12. Method according to the previous claim, comprising also the following steps:
measure the electric parameter of the second component (18) by means of the measuring and evaluation device (22) in order to draw conclusions with regard to the current flow through the second measuring circuit conductor (14),
evaluation of the electric parameter of the second component (18) by means of the measuring and evaluation device (22),
compare the electric parameter of the first and the second component (16, 18) obtained by means of the measuring and evaluation device (22).



13. Method according to claim 11, comprising also the following steps:
To digitalize the electric parameter by means of the analog-to-digital converter (24),
To process the digital signals by means of the microcontroller (26) for the purpose of comparing and/or calculating deviations.



14. Method according to claim 11, comprising also the following steps:
To display a fault by means of the indicator and/or to protect the photovoltaic system (4) by means of the protective device by shorting or disconnecting the network (2) in response to a value of the electric parameter that indicates a fault. 


