
A terminal box (10) includes terminal plates (90), a base plate (21) for supporting the terminal plates (90) and an outer plate (22) surrounding the base plate (21). The base plate (21) has higher heat resistance than the outer plate (22) and is mounted and fixed to the outer plate (22). The outer plate (22) is formed integrally with pressing pieces (33) for preventing the lifting of the terminal plates (90) from the base plate 21 by being arranged to be able to come into contact with the outer surfaces of the terminal plates (90) as the base plate (21) is mounted.



1. A terminal box for solar cell module to be attached to a solar cell module, comprising;
a plurality of terminal plates;
a rectifying element which is connected to two corresponding ones of the terminal plates and includes a heating part;
a base plate which is in the form of a flat plate for supporting the terminal plates and the rectifying element;
an outer plate which has lower heat resistance than the base plate and is in the form of a frame surrounding the base plate and to which the base plate is mounted and fixed; and
a pressing piece which is united with the outer plate and can come into contact with the outer surfaces of the terminal plates as the base plate is mounted to the outer plate, thereby preventing the lifting of the terminal plates from the base plate.



2. The terminal box of claim 1, wherein a pressing area of the terminal plate covered by the pressing piece is equal to or more than half the entire area of the terminal plate in a width direction.


3. The terminal box of claim 2, wherein the terminal plates are held between the pressing piece and the base plate in a state where the base plate is mounted to the outer plate.


4. The terminal box of claim 3, wherein the base plate is slid and mounted to the outer plate.


5. The terminal box of claim 3, wherein the terminal plates are placed on left and right supporting areas of the base plate, the outer plate is defined by both left and right side walls and front and rear walls, the base plate is slidable in forward and backward directions relative to the outer plate, and the pressing piece projects into an internal space from the inner surface of each of the both side walls.


6. The terminal box of claim 5, wherein one of the respective terminal plates serves as a heat radiation plate which has a larger surface area than the other terminal plate and supports the rectifying element, and one of the respective pressing pieces has a larger width in forward and backward directions than the other pressing piece and prevents the lifting of the heat radiation plate.


7. The terminal box of claim 6, wherein the base plate is formed with a slide portion, the outer plate is formed with a slide receiving portion which slides along the slide portion at the time of sliding and mounting the base plate, and the pressing piece is integrally coupled to the slide receiving portion.


8. The terminal box of claim 7, wherein the base plate is formed with projections, each terminal plate is formed with a hole, a leading end part of each projection is inserted into the hole to come out at the outer side of the terminal plate and deformed by applying resin caulking to form a resin caulked portion for holding the terminal plate between the resin caulked portion and the base plate, and the resin caulking is applied in a state where the lifting of the terminal plates is prevented by the pressing piece.


9. The terminal box of claim 1, wherein the base plate is made of at least one material selected from PBT (polybutylene terephthalate) and PPS (polyphenylene sulfide).


10. The terminal box of claim 1, wherein the outer plate is made of at least one material selected from PPO (polyphenylene oxide), PPE (polyphenylene ether) and PVC (polyvinyl chloride).


11. The terminal box of claim 5, wherein the base plate is formed with a slide portion, the outer plate is formed with a slide receiving portion which slides along the slide portion at the time of sliding and mounting the base plate, and the pressing piece is integrally coupled to the slide receiving portion.


12. The terminal box of claim 11, wherein the base plate is formed with projections, each terminal plate is formed with a hole, a leading end part of each projection is inserted into the hole to come out at the outer side of the terminal plate and deformed by applying resin caulking to form a resin caulked portion for holding the terminal plate between the resin caulked portion and the base plate, and the resin caulking is applied in a state where the lifting of the terminal plates is prevented by the pressing piece.


13. The terminal box of claim 5, wherein the base plate is formed with projections, each terminal plate is formed with a hole, a leading end part of each projection is inserted into the hole to come out at the outer side of the terminal plate and deformed by applying resin caulking to form a resin caulked portion for holding the terminal plate between the resin caulked portion and the base plate, and the resin caulking is applied in a state where the lifting of the terminal plates is prevented by the pressing piece. 

