
Apparatus and techniques for mounting frameless photovoltaic modules reduce module stress induced by the mounting configuration. Mounting clamps and rail/clamp spacing configured to relieve module stress by reducing or eliminating module sag are used.



1. A photovoltaic assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet;
a mounting structure comprising module mounting rails; and
clamps attached to at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying the at least two rails, thereby securing the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module is supported substantially across the transverse width of the frameless photovoltaic module by each of the at least two rails.



2. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the clamps are configured to secure the module to the mounting structure without a creating gap between the backside of the module and the at least two rails of the mounting structure.


3. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 2, wherein the clamps have a substantially L-shape.


4. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a material between the backside sheet and each of the at least two rails to provide a mechanical interface between the backside sheet and the at least two rails.


5. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 4, wherein the material is selected from the group consisting of a silicone-based polymer, butyl rubber, acrylic foam tape, polyurethane, and epoxy.


6. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 4, wherein the material is a UV-stable adhesive.


7. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the clamps comprise a rigid portion and an elastomeric portion.


8. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 7, wherein the elastomeric portions of the clamps engages the frontside sheet of the module.


9. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 7, wherein the elastomer is selected from the group consisting of EPDM rubber, butyl rubber and silicone rubber.


10. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 7, wherein the elastomer is EPDM rubber.


11. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 10, wherein the EPDM rubber has a Shore hardness of about 60 A.


12. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 8, wherein the elastomer is about 3 mm thick.


13. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


14. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 13, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


15. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 13, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


16. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 15, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


17. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the rails and the clamps are aligned, and the rails are positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


18. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the clamps are offset from the rails, and the clamps are clamped to the module about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


19. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


20. A method of installing a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet onto a mounting structure, the method comprising:
providing the mounting structure comprising module mounting rails;
positioning the module backside sheet, wherein the module is supported substantially across the transverse width of the module by each of at least two rails; and
securing the frameless photovoltaic module onto the mounting structure with clamps attached to the at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying the at least two rails.



21. The method of claim 20, wherein the clamps are configured to secure the module to the mounting structure without a creating gap between the backside of the module and the at least two rails of the mounting structure.


22. The method of claim 21, wherein the clamps have a substantially L-shape.


23. The method of claim 20, further comprising disposing a material between the backside sheet and each of the at least two rails, the material providing a mechanical interface between the backside sheet and the at least two rails.


24. The method of claim 23, wherein the material is selected from the group consisting of a silicone-based polymer, butyl rubber, acrylic foam tape, polyurethane, and epoxy.


25. The method of claim 23, wherein the material is a UV-stable adhesive.


26. The method of claim 20, wherein the clamps comprise a rigid portion and an elastomeric portion.


27. The method of claim 26, wherein the elastomeric portion of the clamps engages the frontside sheet of the module.


28. The method of claim 27, wherein the elastomer is EPDM rubber having a Shore hardness of about 60 A.


29. The method of claim 26, wherein the elastomeric portion is about 5 mm thick where the elastomeric portion engages the frontside sheet of the module.


30. The method of claim 20, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


31. The method of claim 20, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


32. The method of claim 20, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


33. The method of claim 32, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


34. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the rails and the clamps are aligned, and the rails are positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


35. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the clamps are offset from the rails, and the clamps are clamped to the module about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


36. The method of claim 20, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


37. A photovoltaic assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside glass sheet and a backside non-glass flexible sheet;
a mounting structure comprising module mounting rails; and
L-shaped clamps aligned with and attached to at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying the at least two rails, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module is supported substantially across the transverse width of the frameless photovoltaic module by each of the at least two rails, thereby securing the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure.


