
A mounting system for mounting photovoltaic panels on a support structure. The mounting system comprises photovoltaic panel frames in which the photovoltaic panels are mounted, panel support rails, and mounting brackets or cross beams for supporting the panel support rails. The panel frames have inwardly extending panel frame extensions on their back side. The panel support rails are mounted on the support structure with either pivoting brackets or cross beams. In either case, the support rails have pairs of stationary clamps and movable clamps with clamp lips that engage the panel frame extensions of the panel frames.



1. A system for mounting a flat panel on a support structure, the system comprising:
a. a panel frame in which the flat panel is mounted, the panel frame having a front side and a back side and having an inwardly extending panel frame extension on the back side of the panel frame, wherein the panel frame extension is offset from a plane including the flat panel;
b. a panel support rail having a length and an upper surface for supporting the flat panel and having a stationary clamp and a movable clamp that engage the panel frame extension to secure the panel to the panel support rail; and
c. a mounting bracket for supporting the panel support rail on the support structure.



2. (canceled)


3. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the stationary clamp is supported on the upper surface of the panel support rail at a position along the length of the panel support rail and is fixed to the panel support rail by means of a bolt and clinch nut interconnecting the stationary clamp and the panel support rail.


4. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the movable clamp is slidably supported on the upper surface of the panel support rail and is engaged by a lead screw for moving the movable clamp along the length of the panel support rail.


5. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the stationary clamp is supported on the upper surface of the panel support rail at a position along the length of the panel support rail and is fixed to the panel support rail by means of a stationary clamp bolt and clinch nut interconnecting the stationary clamp and the panel support rail, wherein the movable clamp is slidably supported on the upper surface of the panel support rail and is connected by a movable clamp bolt to a lead screw for moving the movable clamp along the length of the panel support rail, wherein the stationary clamp and the movable clamp each have a clamp body with an attached clamp lip, and wherein the clamp lip engages the frame extension of the frame panel to secure the flat panel to the panel support rail.


6. The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the movable clamp and the stationary clamp each further include a spacer wedge interposed between the clamp body and the panel support rail to raise and lower the clamp lip to accommodate frame panel extensions of varying thickness.


7. The mounting system of claim 6, wherein the spacer wedge is positioned fore and aft with respect to the clamp body by positioning a hole fore and aft in the spacer wedge for respectively connecting the spacer wedge to the clamp body by means of the stationary clamp bolt and the movable clamp bolt.


8. The mounting system of claim 6, wherein the spacer wedge is positioned fore and aft with respect to the clamp body by a slot in the spacer wedge for respectively connecting the spacer wedge to the clamp body by means of the stationary clamp bolt and the movable clamp bolt and by roughened surfaces on the spacer wedge and on the clamp body.


9. The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the movable clamp and the stationary clamp each further include a spacer wedge interposed above the clamp body to raise and lower the clamp lip to accommodate frame panel extensions of varying thickness, wherein the spacer wedge is positioned fore and aft with respect to the clamp body by positioning a hole fore and aft in the spacer wedge and a slot in the clamp body, wherein the hole in the spacer wedge engages respectively the stationary clamp bolt and the movable clamp bolt so that, as the movable clamp is pulled away from the stationary clamp by means of the lead screw, the spacer wedge pulls the respective clamp bodies with attached clamp lips against the frame panel extensions.


10. The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the movable clamp and the stationary clamp each further includes a cam lock pivotally mounted on the clamp lip, the cam lock comprising a forwardly extending nose portion that extends over the frame panel extension and a trailing tail portion that engages the frame panel extension to pivot the nose portion into engagement with the frame panel extension.


11. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket for supporting the panel support rail comprises an upper member connected to the panel support rail and a lower member connected to the support structure and wherein the upper member and the lower member are pivotally connected to each other.


12. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket for supporting the panel support rail comprises a cross beam interposed between the panel support rail and the support structure and wherein the cross beam is identical in construction to the panel support rail.


13. The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the flat panel is a photovoltaic panel and wherein a first panel frame includes a male electrical plug along one side and a second panel frame adjacent to the first panel frame includes a female receptacle so that when the first and second panel frames are brought together an electrical connection is established between the adjacent photovoltaic panels.


14. A system for mounting a flat panel on a support structure, the system comprising:
a. a panel frame in which the flat panel is mounted, the panel frame having an inwardly extending panel frame extension;
b. a panel support rail having a length and an upper surface for supporting the flat panel and having a stationary clamp and a movable clamp that engage the panel frame extension to secure the panel to the panel support rail
c. a lead screw for moving the movable clamp along the length of the panel support rail; and
d. a mounting bracket for supporting the panel support rail on the support structure.



15. The mounting system of claim 14, wherein the stationary clamp is supported on the upper surface of the panel support rail at a position along the length of the panel support rail and is fixed to the panel support rail by means of a bolt and clinch nut interconnecting the stationary clamp and the panel support rail.


16. The mounting system of claim 14, wherein the mounting bracket for supporting the panel support rail comprises an upper member connected to the panel support rail and a lower member connected to the support structure and wherein the upper member and the lower member are pivotally connected to each other. 

