
The present invention relates to a photovoltaic module. A photovoltaic module according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises a solar cell module, a micro-inverter to convert DC power generated by the solar cell module into AC power, a controller to control the micro-inverter's operation, and an interface unit connected to power grid supplying external electrical power and to provide the AC power to the power grid, the controller to control operation of the micro-inverter such that the AC power is matched to the external electrical power flowing into the power grid. The photovoltaic module according to the present invention can provide electrical power generated at solar cell modules through a simple connection to power grid which supplies electrical power to home, reducing consumption of electrical power flowing into home.



1. A photovoltaic module, comprising:
a solar cell module,
a micro-inverter to convert DC power generated by the solar cell module into AC power,
a controller to control the micro-inverter's operation, and
an interface unit connected to power grid supplying external electrical power and to provide the AC power to the power grid,
the controller to control operation of the micro-inverter such that the AC power is matched to the external electrical power flowing into the power grid.



2. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, wherein the solar cell module comprises
multiple solar cells;
a first and a second sealing member formed on a lower and an upper surface of the multiple solar cells;
a rear substrate formed on a lower surface of the first sealing member; and
a front substrate formed on an upper surface of the second sealing member.



3. The photovoltaic module of claim 2, comprising a junction box disposed on the rear substrate, the junction box being equipped with a bypass diode unit and a capacitor unit; and the micro-inverter and the controller being disposed within the junction box.


4. The photovoltaic module of claim 3, wherein the junction box comprises an output current detection unit to detect output current of the micro-inverter; and
an output voltage detection unit to detect output voltage of the micro-inverter, the controller, based on the output current and the output voltage, to control operation of the micro-inverter.



5. The photovoltaic module of claim 3, wherein the junction box or the interface unit comprises a first communication module and the photovoltaic module further comprises a monitoring unit equipped with a second communication module capable of communicating with the first communication module.


6. The photovoltaic module of claim 5, wherein the monitoring unit detects the external electrical power and the second communication module transmits the detected external electrical power to the first communication module; and the controller controls operation of the micro-inverter based on the external electrical power received by the first communication module.


7. The photovoltaic module of claim 6, wherein the monitoring unit comprises a display and the display displays the detected external electrical power.


8. The photovoltaic module of claim 7, wherein the first communication module transmits the amount of electrical power generated at the photovoltaic module to the second communication module and the display displays the amount of electrical power received by the second communication module.


9. The photovoltaic module of claim 5, wherein the monitoring unit connects to the power grid at a position separated from the interface unit.


10. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, wherein the micro-inverter and the controller are disposed within the interface unit.


11. The photovoltaic module of claim 5, wherein the interface unit and the monitoring unit are formed together as a single bogy.


12. The photovoltaic module of claim 3, wherein a heat releasing member is disposed between the rear substrate and the junction box.


13. A photovoltaic module, comprising:
a solar cell module comprising a front substrate, a rear substrate, and solar cells between the front and the rear substrate;
a junction box disposed on the rear substrate and to prevent reversal of current of DC power generated at the solar cell module;
an inverter disposed on the rear substrate and to convert the DC power supplied through the junction box into AC power; and
an interface unit connected to power grid to which external electrical power is supplied and providing the AC power to the power grid.



14. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, comprising a frame being fastened to the solar cell module,
the frame being equipped with an upper joint; a lower joint; an arm-shaped joint comprising a connecting joint connecting the two joints; and a leg unit being extended from the connecting joint and forming an L shaped cross-section; and
the frame being combined with the periphery of the solar cell module and supporting the solar cell module.



15. The photovoltaic module of claim 14, wherein the frame comprises a cover unit being formed as part of the leg unit is extended to cover the inverter.


16. The photovoltaic module of claim 15, wherein a heat insulating layer is disposed between the cover unit and the inverter.


17. The photovoltaic module of claim 15, wherein a heat insulating layer is disposed between the inverter and the rear substrate.


18. The photovoltaic module of claim 15, wherein a heat radiation fin is formed on one outside surface of the cover unit.


19. The photovoltaic module of claim 13, wherein the inverter and the interface unit comprises a first communication unit and the photovoltaic module further comprises a monitoring unit equipped with a second communication module capable of communicating with the first communication module.


20. The photovoltaic module of claim 19, wherein the monitoring unit detects the external electrical power and the second communication module transmits the detected external electrical power to the first communication module; and the controller controls operation of the micro-inverter based on the external electrical power received by the first communication module. 

