
The invention provides a solar panel mounting system (1) for mounting one or more solar panels (P), the system comprising: at least one support device (2) for supporting the solar panel (P) thereon, and at least one flexible fastening member (15). The support device (2) comprises: a base (3) adapted to seat stably on a substantially flat rooftop surface (R), the base (3) having at least one recess (5) for receiving ballast (B) to stabilise the support device (2) on the surface (R); and a mounting frame (9) upstanding from the base (3) and integral therewith, the mounting frame (9) being configured to support the solar panel (P) such that said panel (P) slopes downwardly towards a front edge region (6) of the base (3). The flexible fastening member (15) is adapted to engage and to extend from the support device (2), and has an attachment portion (17) which is adapted to be secured to a rooftop surface (R). Typically, a plurality of the support devices (2) are arranged spaced apart and essentially parallel to one another side-by-side in one or more rows for receiving and supporting a solar panel (P) extending between adjacent pairs of the support devices (2). Furthermore, a flexible fastening member (15) preferably engages and extends from each of the front and rear edge regions (6, 7) of each support device (2).



1. Support device for mounting a solar panel, comprising:
a base for seating on a substantially flat surface; and
a panel mounting frame upstanding from the base, the mounting frame configured to support a solar panel such that the panel slopes downwardly towards a front edge of the base;
wherein the base includes at least one recess for receiving ballast to stabilise the support device on the surface; and wherein an edge region of the base is configured to engage a flexible fastening member for attachment to the surface.



2. Support device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one ballast-receiving recess is located essentially centrally within the base, preferably, in an area of a vertical projection of the mounting frame onto the base; and/or
wherein the at least one ballast-receiving recess is formed as a chamber or cavity, the chamber or cavity preferably being upwardly open for receiving the ballast from above; and/or
wherein the at least one ballast-receiving recess is elongate and extends between front and rear edge regions of the base, preferably at a lateral side of the mounting frame; and/or
wherein the base of the support device includes two ballast-receiving recesses which extend at laterally opposite sides of the mounting frame; and/or
wherein the base of the support device has a generally flat underside and/or footings for seating stably on the surface; and wherein the at least one ballast-receiving recess has a tray-like configuration;
wherein preferably the mounting frame is arranged substantially centrally of the base.



3. Support device according to claim 1, wherein the mounting frame is configured to support the solar panel pitched at an angle in the range of about 10° to about 40°, preferably in the range of about 15° to about 30°, to the horizontal surface or flat rooftop.


4. Support device according to claim 1, wherein the mounting frame comprises a rear strut member that projects upwardly from the base, and a bearing member provided at an upper end region of the rear strut member and configured to bear the solar panel; the bearing member preferably extending from an upper end region of the rear strut member towards a front edge region of the base, and preferably at an angle in the range of about 10° to about 40° to the surface, and the mounting frame preferably further comprising a front strut member which projects upwardly from the base and joins the bearing member.


5. Support device according to claim 1, further having an opening in the base configured to receive the mounting frame of an identical support device, such that one support device nests with the other in a stacked arrangement.


6. Support device according to claim 1, wherein a width dimension of the base between its opposite side edge regions is less than half, and preferably less than one third, preferably between one third and one fifth of a length dimension of the base between its front and rear edge regions.


7. Support device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one ballast-receiving recess, preferably the essentially centrally located recess, comprises an opening at an underside of the recess.


8. Support device according to claim 7, wherein the recess is configured to receive ballast for stabilizing the support device on the surface and/or
the recess is configured such that the support device comprising such recess is able to receive and nest with an identical support device when one support device is stacked upon the other.



9. Support device according to claim 7, wherein the dimensions of the opening at an underside of the recess are at least the dimensions of the vertical projection of the mounting frame and preferably the opening is essentially located within the vertical projection of the mounting frame onto the base, and/or
the recess, preferably a ground-facing side of the recess, comprises a ballast-bearing surface.



10. Support device according to claim 1, wherein an edge region of the base, preferably at least the rear edge region, is configured to allow a flexible fastening member to extend through the base, preferably to be threaded, slid, or slipped though the base.


11. Support device according to claim 1 further comprising a flexible fastening member, preferably a fastening strap, which preferably extends through the base.


12. Mounting system for one or more solar panels comprising at least one, preferably at least two, support device according to claim 1.


13. Mounting system according to claim 12 further comprising a flexible fastening member that is preferably configured to extend through the base.


14. Mounting system according to claim 12 further comprising one or more mounting rails which are configured to extend from the mounting frame of the at least one support device, preferably which are configured to extend transversely between the mounting frames of adjacent support devices.

