
A support system for photovoltaic cells upon a roof. A cell support structure is provided beneath each cell, such as in the form of a pair of brackets to form a photovoltaic panel. The panels overlap partially to function somewhat as shingles, to shed water off of the roof. A lower side wall of each photovoltaic panel has at least one port therein to selectively access a space beneath the photovoltaic cell. Photovoltaic cell electronics, such as an inverter for one or a series of cells. A door is provided in one embodiment which selectively covers the port and acts as a support for the photovoltaic cell electronics.



1. A roofing system with integrated photovoltaic power generation, comprising in combination:
a plurality of photovoltaic panels;
each photovoltaic panel including at least one photovoltaic cell on an upper surface thereof;
each photovoltaic panel including an underlying structure beneath said at least one photovoltaic cell;
said underlying structure including a lower side wall defining at least a portion of a lower edge of each said photovoltaic panel;
said underlying structure including an upper side opposite said lower side wall, said upper side defining at least a portion of an upper edge of each said photovoltaic panel;
said lower side wall of a first of said plurality of photovoltaic panels overlying said upper side of a second of said plurality of photovoltaic panels, with said first photovoltaic panel and said second photovoltaic panel adjacent each other and each angled with said upper sides higher than said lower side walls for each said photovoltaic panel;
said lower side wall of said first photovoltaic panel openly accessible above said at least one photovoltaic cell on said upper surface of said second photovoltaic panel underlying said first photovoltaic panel; and
at least one port in said lower side wall of said first photovoltaic panel, said port providing access to a space beneath said at least one photovoltaic cell of said first photovoltaic panel.



2. The system of claim 1 wherein said lower side wall of said first photovoltaic panel includes a plurality of ports therein.


3. The system of claim 2 wherein said underlying structure of said at least one photovoltaic panel includes multiple separate brackets with at least one port in each said lower side wall of each said bracket.


4. The system of claim 3 wherein at least one expansion joint is located between at least two of said multiple brackets of said first photovoltaic panel.


5. The system of claim 1 wherein said first photovoltaic panel includes a door, said door sized to cover said at least one port, said door movable between at least two positions with one of said at least two positions covering said port more completely than the other of said at least two positions.


6. The system of claim 5 wherein said door includes a face portion, said face portion being substantially planar and sized to overlie said port when said door is in a closed position.


7. The system of claim 6 wherein said face portion is sized larger than said port with a perimeter of said face portion adapted to abut at least portions of said lower side wall adjacent said port, and with portions of said door extending inward from said face and into said port.


8. The system of claim 6 wherein said door includes a tray portion extending from an inner side of said face portion, said tray portion extending through said port when said face portion is adjacent said lower side wall.


9. The system of claim 8 wherein said tray portion includes an underside having at least portions thereof above portions of said face portion of said door, such that at least portions of said underside of said tray portion overlie said space beneath said first photovoltaic panel, said tray portion adapted to have photovoltaic cell electronics coupled thereto through said underside of said tray portion, with said photovoltaic cell electronics coupled to said photovoltaic cell through wiring, said wiring having sufficient slack to allow said door to move away from said port in said lower side wall somewhat while remaining connected between said photovoltaic cell electronics and said photovoltaic cell.


10. A support structure for a photovoltaic cell to support the photovoltaic cell above an underlying angled surface along with a plurality of adjacent photovoltaic cells, the structure comprising in combination:
a plurality of elements extending between a lower plane adapted to abut the underlying angled surface and an upper plane adapted to abut and support the photovoltaic cell thereon;
a lower side wall defining at least a portion of a lower edge of the support structure and located between said lower plane and said upper plane;
an upper side opposite said lower side wall, said upper side defining at least a portion of an upper edge of the support structure and located between said lower plane and said upper plane;
space between said plurality of elements, between said upper plane and said lower plane, and between said lower side wall and said upper side, said space adapted to contain photovoltaic cell electronics therein; and
at least one port in said lower side wall, said port providing access to said space through said lower side wall.



11. The support structure of claim 10 wherein said lower side wall of said first photovoltaic panel includes a plurality of ports therein.


12. The support structure of claim 10 wherein said lower side wall is substantially planar.


13. The support structure of claim 12 wherein said port is wider horizontally than tall substantially vertically.


14. The support structure of claim 10 wherein said first photovoltaic panel includes a door, said door sized to cover said at least one port, said door movable between at least two positions with one of said at least two positions covering said port more completely than the other of said at least two positions.


15. The support structure of claim 14 wherein said door includes a face portion, said face portion being substantially planar and sized to overlie said port when said door is in a closed position.


16. The support structure of claim 15 wherein said face portion is sized larger than said port with a perimeter of said face portion adapted to abut at least portions of said lower side wall adjacent said port, and with portions of said door extending inward from said face and into said port.


17. The support structure of claim 15 wherein said door includes a tray portion extending from an inner side of said face portion, said tray portion extending through said port when said face portion is adjacent said lower side wall.


18. The support structure of claim 17 wherein said tray portion includes an underside having at least portions thereof above portions of said face portion of said door, such that at least portions of said underside of said tray portion, of said tray portion overlie said space beneath said first photovoltaic panel, said tray portion adapted to have photovoltaic cell electronics coupled thereto through said underside of said tray portion, with said photovoltaic cell electronics coupled to said photovoltaic cell through wiring, said wiring having sufficient slack to allow said door to move away from said port in said lower side wall somewhat while remaining connected between said photovoltaic cell electronics and said photovoltaic cell.


19. A method for accessing photovoltaic cell electronics of a partially stacked array of separate photovoltaic panels, with the array having a lower side wall defining at least a portion of a lower edge of a first photovoltaic panel overlying an upper side of a second photovoltaic panel, and with the first photovoltaic panel and the second photovoltaic panel adjacent each other and angled with the upper sides higher than the lower side walls for each of the photovoltaic panels, the accessing method including the steps of:
keeping the lower side wall of the first panel opening accessible above a photovoltaic cell on an upper surface of the second photovoltaic panel underlying the first photovoltaic panel;
identifying a port in the lower side wall, the port providing access to a space beneath a photovoltaic cell of the first photovoltaic panel; and
accessing photovoltaic cell electronics associated with the first photovoltaic panel which are located in the space beneath the photovoltaic cell of the first photovoltaic panel, through the port of said identifying step.



20. The method of claim 19 wherein said accessing step includes the further steps of:
identifying a door at least partially covering the port in the lower side wall; and
opening the door to more fully expose the port.



21. The method of claim 20 wherein said accessing step further includes:
mounting the photovoltaic cell electronics at least partially to portions of the door facing the space beneath the photovoltaic cell of the first photovoltaic panel; and
moving the door with the photovoltaic cell electronics at least partially mounted thereto at least partially out of the port for accessing the photovoltaic cell electronics.


