
Provided is a solar panel mounting structure excellent in cleaning workability and maintenance easiness after construction. A solar panel mounting structure 10 includes: a fixation member 12 as an angle member, which has an L-shape in cross section, and is firmly fixed onto a roofing 11 composed of a metal plate as a magnetic material; solar panels 14, each of which is rotatably held on the fixation member 12 while interposing an insertion/extraction hinge 13 mounted on an upper edge of an erected portion 12a of the fixation member 12; and a magnetic engaging device 15 provided between the solar panel 14 and the roofing 11 in order to detachably fix the solar panel 14 to the roofing 11. The fixation member 12 is firmly fixed to the roofing 11 while interposing a double-sided adhesive tape 16 and an adhesive agent 17 therebetween. The magnetic engaging device 15 includes: a cup-like casing 19 mounted to a lower surface of the solar panel 14 by a screw 18; and a ferrite magnet 20 firmly fixed into the casing 19. 



1. A solar panel mounting structure comprising:
a fixation member firmly fixed onto a roofing consisted of a magnetic material;
a solar panel;
a hinge comprised of a first wing, a second wing and a support shaft joining the first wing and the second wing rotatably, the first wing is fixed on the fixation member, and the second wing is fixed on the solar panel, so that the solar panel rotatably held on the fixation member; and
a magnetic engaging device provided between the solar panel and the roofing in order to detachably fix the solar panel to the roofing.



2. The solar panel mounting structure according to claim 1, wherein
an insertion/extraction hinge is used as the hinge.



3. The solar panel mounting structure according to claim 1, wherein
at least one of an adhesive agent and a double-sided adhesive tape is used as a fixing device for the fixation member to the roofing.



4. The solar panel mounting structure according to claim 2, wherein
at least one of an adhesive agent and a double-sided adhesive tape is used as a fixing device for the fixation member to the roofing.


