
A photovoltaic power generating device comprising a current collecting box side detector for detecting a ground fault in each of the photovoltaic strings, a switch disposed in correspondence to each of the photovoltaic strings and interposed between the photovoltaic string and a connecting cable, a current collecting box including a control unit providing an on/off control of the switch according to the detection result from the detector, a detector that detects a ground fault in a connecting cable between the current collecting box and the power conditioner, a switch interposed between the connecting cable and the inverter, and a power conditioner including a control unit providing an on/off control of the switch according to the detection result from the detector.



1. A ground fault detecting device for detecting a ground fault in a direct current power supply, comprising:
a detector that provides detection outputs to detect a ground fault;
a calculator that calculates the mean value of a plurality of outputs from the detector by obtaining the plural outputs from the detector; and
a judgment maker that determines the presence of the ground fault by comparing the mean value calculated by the calculator with a set value.



2. The ground fault detecting device according to claim 1, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the calculator is changed according to detection outputs supplied from the detector.


3. The ground fault detecting device according to claim 2, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the calculator is reduced, as the detection outputs supplied from the detector are larger.


4. The ground fault detecting device according to claim 1, wherein the detector outputs the detection outputs based on a differential current generated in the forward current cable and the backward current cable from the direct current power supply.


5. A current collecting box serving to collect electric power from a plurality of photovoltaic strings, comprising:
a detector that provides detection outputs to detect a ground fault in each of the photovoltaic strings;
a calculator that calculates the mean value of a plurality of outputs from the detector by obtaining the plural outputs from the detector; and
a judgment maker that determines the presence of the ground fault by comparing the mean value calculated by the calculator with a set value.



6. A current collecting box according to claim 5, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the calculator is changed according to detection outputs supplied from the detector.


7. A current collecting box according to claim 6, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the calculator is reduced, as the detection outputs supplied from the detector are larger.


8. A current collecting box according to claim 5, wherein the detector provides the detection outputs based on a differential current generated in the forward current cable and the backward current cable from the direct current power supply.


9. A current collecting box according to claim 5, further comprising:
a switch provided in correspondence to each of the photovoltaic strings and interposed between the photovoltaic string and a connecting cable;
a control unit that applies an on/off control to the switch according to a result supplied from the judgment maker.



10. A photovoltaic power generating device, comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic strings;
a current collecting box serving to collect electric power from the photovoltaic strings; and
a power conditioner supplied with the electric power from the plural current collecting boxes, and having an inverter for converting the electric power into the alternating current power,
wherein the current collecting box includes:
a first detector that provides detection outputs to detect a ground fault in each of the photovoltaic strings;
a first calculator that calculates the mean value of a plurality of outputs from the first detector by obtaining the plural outputs from the first detector;
a first judgment maker that determines the presence of the ground fault by comparing the mean value calculated by the first calculator with a set value, and
the power conditioner includes:
a second detector that provides detection outputs to detect a ground fault in a connecting cable between the current collecting box and the power conditioner;
a second calculator that calculates the mean value of a plurality of outputs from the second detector by obtaining the plural outputs from the second detector; and
a second judgment maker that determines the presence of the ground fault by comparing the mean value calculated by the second calculator with a set value.



11. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 10, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the first or second calculator is changed according to detection outputs supplied from the first or second detector.


12. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 11, wherein the number of output values in detection outputs used for calculating the mean value by the first or second calculator is reduced, as the detection outputs supplied from the first or second detector are larger.


13. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 10, wherein the first detector provides the detection outputs based on a differential current generated in the forward current cable and the backward current cable from the photovoltaic strings.


14. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 10, wherein the second detector provides the detection outputs based on a differential current generated in the forward current cable and the backward current cable from the current collecting box.


15. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 10, wherein the current collecting box is provided in correspondence to each of the photovoltaic strings, and comprises:
a first switch interposed between the photovoltaic string and the connecting cable; and
a first control unit that apples an on/off control to the first switch according to a result supplied from the first judgment maker.



16. The photovoltaic power generating device according to claim 10, wherein the power conditioner includes:
a second switch interposed between the inverter and the connecting cable; and
a second control unit that applies an on/off control to the second switch according to a result supplied from the second judgment maker. 


