
An electronic device for optimizing the output power of a solar cell, the electronic device having: a variable resistor coupled in series between the solar cell and a load, a control unit that is configured to control the variable resistor, a sensor for measuring an output voltage and a sensor for measuring the output current of the solar cell, wherein the control unit is configured to vary the resistance of the series resistor over time such that the first order derivative of the output voltage over time has a constant value, to monitor the second order derivative of the output current over time simultaneously, to detect whether the second order derivative of the output current over time exceeds a predetermined threshold value and to identify the corresponding values of the output voltage and current as a maximum power point (MPP) of the solar cell.



1. An electronic device for optimizing the output power of a solar cell, the electronic device comprising:
a variable series resistor being coupled in series between the solar cell and a load;
a control unit that is configured to control the variable resistor;
a sensor for measuring an output voltage;
and a sensor for measuring the output current of the solar cell; and
the control unit being configured to vary the resistance of the series resistor over time such that the first order derivative of the output voltage over time has a constant value, to monitor the second order derivative of the output current over time simultaneously, to detect whether the second order derivative of the output current over time exceeds a predetermined threshold value and to identify the corresponding values of the output voltage and current as a maximum power point (MPP) of the solar cell.



2. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is further configured to identify the maximum power point (MPP) of the solar cell by detecting an extreme value of the second order derivative of the output current over time.


3. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the electronic device is a discrete analog integrated circuit.


4. The electronic device according to claim 2, wherein the electronic device is a discrete analog integrated circuit.


5. A method for operating an electronic device for optimizing the output power of a solar cell, the electronic device comprising:
a variable series resistor being coupled in series between the solar cell and a load, a control unit that is configured to control the variable resistor;
a sensor for measuring an output voltage and a sensor for current of the solar cell, the method comprising:
varying the resistance of the series resistor over time such that the first order derivative of the output voltage over time has a constant value;
simultaneously monitoring the second order derivative of the output current over time; and
determining whether the second order derivative of the output current over time exceeds a predetermined threshold value and identifying the corresponding values of the output voltage and current as a maximum power point (MPP) of the solar cell.



