
A system and apparatus are disclosed including PV modules having a frame allowing quick and easy assembling of the PV modules into a PV array in a sturdy and durable manner. In examples of the present technology, the PV modules may have a grooved frame where the groove is provided at an angle with respect to a planar surface of the modules. Various couplings may engage within the groove to assemble the PV modules into the PV array with a pivot-fit connection. Further examples of the present technology operate with PV modules having frames without grooves, or with PV modules where the frame is omitted altogether.



1. A bracket for mounting a photovoltaic module comprising:
a coupling portion adapted to connect said bracket to a PV module; and
a pivoting mechanism adapted to connect said bracket to a structural system.



2. The bracket of claim 1 wherein said pivoting mechanism comprises a pivot portion and an engaging portion, said engaging portion being adapted to rotate substantially about said pivot portion and to engage at least a portion of said structural system.


3. The bracket of claim 1 wherein said structural system comprises a rail and said bracket connects to said rail.


4. The bracket of claim 1 wherein said pivoting mechanism further comprises a connecting arm, said connecting arm extending outward from said pivot portion and connecting said bracket to said structural system.


5. The bracket of claim 1 wherein said connecting arm comprises a spring clip.


6. A bracket for mounting a photovoltaic module wherein:
said bracket is positionable essentially along a length of a portion of a structural system at a first angle and connects to said structural system at a second angle less than said first angle.



7. The bracket of claim 6 further comprising an arm and an engaging portion, said arm being operable to rock said bracket and to cause said engaging portion to deform at least a portion of a structural system.


8. The bracket of claim 6 wherein said bracket is positionable essentially anywhere along said length of said portion of said structural system.


9. The bracket of claim 6 wherein said structural system essentially comprises a rail.


10. The bracket of claim 6, wherein at least a portion of said bracket deforms at least a portion of said structural system when said bracket is connected to said structural system.


11. A bracket for mounting a photovoltaic module comprising:
a lever arm and an engaging portion, said lever arm being operable to engage said engaging portion with at least a portion of a structural system.



12. The bracket of claim 11 wherein said bracket rocks.


13. The bracket of claim 11 wherein said lever arm is adapted for connecting to at least a portion of said structural system.


14. The bracket of claim 13 wherein said lever arm comprises a spring clip.


15. The bracket of claim 11 wherein said bracket further comprises a rocking portion, said lever arm protruding in a first direction away from said rocking portion and said engaging portion protruding in a second direction away from said rocking portion.


16. The bracket of claim 11 wherein said structural system comprises a ballast portion.


17. The bracket of claim 11 wherein at least a portion of said structural system comprises essentially a rail.


18. The bracket of claim 11 further comprising a coupling and a rocking portion, said coupling comprising a second portion extending in a direction away from said rocking portion for connecting to said photovoltaic module and an adjacent photovoltaic module.


19. The bracket of claim 12 wherein said bracket deforms at least a portion of said structural system when said bracket is rocked.


20. The bracket of claim 19 wherein said deformation provides a ground bond between said bracket and said structural system. 

