
A bracket assembly for use with a photovoltaic panel frame system. The bracket assembly has an L-shaped member and a base member. A foot portion of the L-shaped member has a lower surface with an arcuate configuration and a plurality of teeth. The base member has an upper surface with an arcuate configuration similar or identical to that of the lower surface of the L-shaped member. The base member further includes a slot for enabling a shaft portion of a threaded fastening member to extend through, while the L-shaped member includes a hole for allowing the shaft portion of the threaded fastening member to pass there through. The teeth allow the L-shaped member and the base member to be quickly secured together so as to provide a desired degree of inclination of the L-shaped member relative to the base member. The slot enables a degree of adjustability between the L-shaped member and the base member so that the bracket assembly can be configured to provide various degrees of inclination to a PV panel being secured by the bracket assembly.



1. A bracket system for use with a photovoltaic panel frame system for assisting in mounting at least one photovoltaic panel at an angle non-parallel to a support surface on which the photovoltaic panel frame system is mounted, the bracket system comprising:
a bracket assembly including:
a first member having a neck portion and a foot portion extending non-parallel to the neck portion, the foot portion having a radius of curvature;
a second member having a first surface having a radius of curvature that generally matches the radius of curvature of the foot portion; and
one of the first member and the second member having an elongated slot formed therein and the other one of the first member and the second member having a hole; and
a fastener adapted to extend through the elongated slot and the hole to secure the first and second members fixedly to a frame system component, and further such that the first member can be secured at a desired inclination relative to the frame system component.




2. The system of claim 1, wherein:
the first member includes a lower surface having a first plurality of teeth, and;
the second member includes an upper surface having a second plurality of teeth; and
wherein the first and second pluralities of teeth engage to assist in maintaining the first member at a desired angular orientation relative to the second member. 


