
A junction cover for a photovoltaic (PV) panel module system that includes a PV panel mounting structure, a rail, a PV module with a junction box and wiring extending between the rail and the junction box. The junction cover encloses the wiring and includes a base section, a nose section and a pair of feet. The base section includes a plate with first and second side walls extending downwardly therefrom to first and second edges to define an interior with an interior surface. The nose section extends from the base section to an open end and has a top wall, two sides formed by the side walls of the base section and an open side. The feet are located on either side of the open end of the nose section and extend therefrom. The feet engage the rail to secure the junction cover in place to enclose the junction box and wiring.



1. A junction cover for a photovoltaic (PV) panel module system that includes a PV panel mounting structure, a rail, a PV module with a junction box and wiring extending between the rail and the junction box, wherein the junction cover encloses the wiring and comprises:
a base section having a plate and first and second side walls extending downwardly therefrom to first and second edges to define an interior with an interior surface;
a nose section extending from the base section to an open end, wherein the nose section has a top wall, two sides formed by the side walls of the base section and an open side; and
a pair of feet located on either side of the open end of the nose section and extending therefrom, wherein the feet engage the rail to secure the junction cover in place.



2. The junction cover according to claim 1, further comprising a member extending upwardly from each of the feet to a distal end, and wherein the members have a notch near the distal end on the side of the member facing the open end of the nose section.


3. The junction cover according to claim 3, wherein the notches are adapted to engage the rail.


4. The junction cover according to claim 2, wherein the side walls extend outwardly from the plate and are arcuately shaped.


5. The junction cover according to claim 2, wherein the side walls extend from the base section to the feet and define the open end of the nose section and an open end of the base section.


6. The junction cover according to claim 5, wherein the first and second side walls curve inwardly towards each other as they extend in the direction of the members.


7. The junction cover according to claim 5, further comprising a planar section of the plate extending from the open end of the base section.


8. The junction cover according to claim 2, wherein the open end of the nose section, the feet and the members define a channel that is adapted to receive the rail.


9. The junction cover according to claim 3, wherein, when the notches engage the rail and the PV panel is attached to the PV panel mounting structure, the junction cover cannot be removed without detaching the PV panel from the mounting structure.


10. The junction cover according to claim 2, wherein the base section and/or the nose section has/have a plurality of apertures.


11. The junction cover according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of cover retaining members extending from the interior surface, wherein the plurality of cover retaining members are adapted to secure the junction cover to the junction box.


12. The junction cover according to claim 11, wherein each of the cover retaining members is formed by one or more ribs having a stepped receiving portion, wherein the stepped receiving portions receive the corners of the junction box to secure the cover to the junction box.


13. The junction cover according to claim 11, wherein the each of side walls comprises two flexible legs having cover retaining members.


14. The junction cover according to claim 13, wherein each of the cover retaining members is formed by one or more ribs having a stepped receiving portion, wherein the stepped receiving portions receive the corners of the junction box to secure the cover to the junction box.


15. The junction cover according to claim 14, wherein at least one of the legs has an aperture adjacent to the one or more ribs, and wherein a tool is inserted into one of the apertures to remove the cover from the junction box.


16. The junction cover according to claim 13, wherein the base section is dimensioned so that the legs can accommodate junction boxes having different dimensions.


17. The junction cover according to claim 11, wherein each of the feet has a substantially flat bottom that is substantially parallel to the plate of the base section, and wherein the feet are inserted between the rail and the PV panel.


18. The junction cover according to claim 11, wherein the base section and/or the nose section has/have a plurality of apertures.


19. A junction cover for a photovoltaic (PV) panel module system that includes a PV panel mounting structure, a rail, a PV module with a junction box and wiring extending between the rail and the junction box, wherein the junction cover encloses the wiring and comprises:
a base section having a plate and first and second side walls extending downwardly therefrom to define an interior with an interior surface;
a nose section extending from the base section to an open end, wherein the nose section has a top wall, two sides formed by the side walls of the base section and an open side; and
a pair of feet located on either side of the open end of the nose section and extending therefrom, wherein the feet engage the rail to secure the junction cover in place; and
a member extending upwardly from each of the feet to a distal end and having a notch near the distal end on the side of the member facing the open end of the nose section, wherein the side walls extend from the base section to the feet and define the open end of the nose section and an open end of the base section, wherein the open end of the nose section, the feet and the members define a channel that is adapted to engagingly receive the rail, and wherein, when the notches engage the rail and the PV panel is attached to the PV panel mounting structure, the junction cover cannot be removed without detaching the PV panel from the mounting structure.



20. A junction cover for a photovoltaic (PV) panel module system that includes a PV panel mounting structure, a rail, a PV module with a junction box and wiring extending between the rail and the junction box, wherein the junction cover encloses the wiring and comprises:
a base section having a plate, first and second side walls extending downwardly therefrom and four flexible legs, wherein the plate, the perimeter side wall and the legs define an interior with an interior surface, wherein one or more ribs having a stepped receiving portion extend from the interior surface of the flexible legs, wherein the stepped receiving portions receive the corners of the junction box to secure the junction cover to the junction box, wherein at least one of the legs has an aperture adjacent to the one or more ribs, and wherein a tool is inserted into one of the apertures to remove the cover from the junction box;
a nose section extending from the base section to an open end, wherein the nose section has a top wall, two sides formed by the side walls of the base section and an open side; and
a pair of feet located on either side of the open end of the nose section and extending therefrom, wherein the feet engage the rail to secure the junction cover in place. 


