
A method and system for operating a photovoltaic module includes providing a reversed electrical bias to the photovoltaic module.



1. A photovoltaic system comprising:
at least one photovoltaic device having a positive terminal and a negative terminal;
an inverter having a positive inverter terminal and a negative inverter terminal, the positive inverter terminal being connected to the positive terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device and the negative inverter terminal being connected to the negative terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device; and
a bias reverser connected between the at least one photovoltaic device and the inverter, the bias reverser for reconnecting the positive inverter terminal to the negative terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device and the negative inverter terminal to the positive terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device wherein when the inverter outputs electricity, the at least one photovoltaic device is reverse biased.



2. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, further comprising a controller configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device.


3. The photovoltaic system of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on a temperature of the photovoltaic device.


4. The photovoltaic system of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on time.


5. The photovoltaic system of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on illumination.


6. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, further comprising at least one switch on the bias reverser to facilitate reverse biasing the device.


7. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic device is an array of photovoltaic cells having some photovoltaic cells reverse biased and others are not reverse biased.


8. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the bias reverser is programmed to apply a reverse bias at a predetermined time.


9. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the bias reverser is programmed to apply a reverse bias at predetermined time intervals.


10. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the bias reverser comprises a first pair of switches comprising a first switch configured to electrically connect the positive terminal to either the positive inverter terminal or the negative inverter terminal and a second switch configured to electrically connect the negative terminal to either the negative inverter terminal or the positive inverter terminal.


11. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the bias reverser comprises:
a first pair of switches comprising a first switch configured to electrically connect the positive terminal to either the positive inverter terminal or the negative inverter terminal and a second switch configured to electrically connect the negative terminal to either the negative inverter terminal or the positive inverter terminal; and
a second pair of switches comprising a third switch configured to electrically connect the second positive terminal to either the positive inverter terminal or the negative inverter terminal and a fourth switch configured to electrically connect the second negative terminal to either the negative inverter terminal or the positive inverter terminal.



12. The photovoltaic system of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic module is reverse-biased to a voltage on the order of a maximum power voltage of the photovoltaic array.


13. A method of operating a photovoltaic system comprising:
exposing a photovoltaic system to light, wherein the photovoltaic system comprises:
at least one photovoltaic device having a positive terminal and a negative terminal;
an inverter having a positive inverter terminal and a negative inverter terminal, the positive inverter terminal being connected to the positive terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device and the negative inverter terminal being connected to the negative terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device; and
a bias reverser connected between the at least one photovoltaic device and the inverter, the bias reverser for reconnecting the positive inverter terminal to the negative terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device and the negative inverter terminal to the positive terminal of the at least one photovoltaic device wherein when the inverter outputs electricity; and
applying a reverse bias to the at least one photovoltaic device.



14. The method of claim 13, wherein applying a reverse bias to the at least one photovoltaic device comprises applying a voltage on the order of the maximum power voltage of a photovoltaic array which comprises the at least one photovoltaic device.


15. The method of claim 13, wherein applying a reverse bias is carried out by a controller configured to reverse the bias to the photovoltaic device.


16. The method of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on a temperature of the photovoltaic device.


17. The method of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on time.


18. The method of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to automatically reverse bias the photovoltaic device based on illumination.


19. The method of claim 13, wherein the bias reverser is programmed to apply a reverse bias at a predetermined time.


20. The method of claim 13, wherein the bias reverser is programmed to apply a reverse bias at predetermined time intervals.

