
The present invention relates to an adjustable racking system for transporting and mounting one or more solar panels to, for example, a rooftop.



1. A solar panel racking system comprising:
a. at least one solar panel comprising a plurality of photovoltaic concentrator modules; and
b. a racking structure attached to the at least one solar panel such that the racking structure can help provide structural integrity of the solar panel during transportation, wherein the racking structure can attach to a mounting structure during installation of the at least one solar panel.



2. The solar panel racking system of claim 1, wherein the racking structure comprises:
i. a frame attached to the at least one solar panel at two or more points, wherein the frame includes four longitudinal members attached to each other so as to form a frame around the perimeter of the at least one solar panel;
ii. at least four posts attached to the frame, wherein the posts structurally support the frame and at least one solar panel during transportation, wherein each post can attach to a mounting structure during installation of the at least one solar panel.



3. The solar panel racking system of claim 1, wherein each solar panel comprises six photovoltaic concentrator modules.


4. The solar panel racking system of claim 3, wherein each photovoltaic concentrator module comprises:
a. a housing comprising a base having at least one solar cell mounted thereon;
b. a plurality of lenses attached the housing and spaced apart from the solar cells such that each lens focuses incident light onto a corresponding solar cell.



5. The solar panel racking system of claim 1, wherein the racking structure permits one or more additional like solar panel racking systems to be stacked upon the racking structure in a manner that maintains structural integrity of the solar panels and wherein the racking structure permits the racking system to be stacked upon one or more additional like solar panel racking systems.


6. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein each post has a first end and a second end and each solar panel has a first main plane that receives incident sunlight and a second main plane opposite the first main plane, wherein each first end of each post extends beyond the first main plane and each second end of each post extends beyond the second main plane.


7. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein each post can be selectively moved relative to the frame along the longitudinal axis of the post to one or more positions.


8. The solar panel racking system of claim 6, wherein each post can be selectively moved to a position such that the first end of each post does not extend beyond the first main plane of each solar panel.


9. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein the frame can be selectively adjusted to one or more positions so as to adjust the distance between two or more adjacent solar panels.


10. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein two opposing frame members can be selectively adjusted to one or more positions so as to adjust the distance between two or more adjacent solar panels.


11. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein each post can be selectively moved relative to the frame along the longitudinal axis of the frame to one or more positions.


12. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein the solar panel racking system is a first solar panel racking system and further comprising a second like solar panel racking system, wherein each post of the first solar panel racking system has a first end and second end, wherein each first end can mate with each second end of a post from the second like solar panel racking system such that the second like solar panel racking system can be stacked on the first solar panel racking system via the posts.


13. The solar panel racking system of claim 2, wherein each post has a first end and second end, wherein each first end can attach to a mounting structure on a rooftop.


14. A method of transporting two or more solar panel racking systems comprising:
a. providing two or more solar panel racking systems according to claim 1;
b. stacking one solar panel racking system on top of the other solar panel racking system via the racking structure; and
c. transporting the two or more solar panel racking systems to an installation location.



15. A method of installing a photovoltaic power system comprising:
a. providing two or more solar panel racking systems according to claim 1;
b. stacking one solar panel racking system on top of the other solar panel racking system via the racking structure;
c. transporting the two or more solar panel racking systems to an installation location;
d. lifting each solar panel onto a rooftop; and
e. mounting each solar panel to the rooftop via the racking structure.


