
Support structures and systems for electrical panels, such as solar panels or collectors, and other materials and devices are described. The structures are relatively strong and lightweight and include cable management features.



1. A support structure comprising at least one frame structure, the frame structure comprising a plurality of grid elements and having a three-dimensional shape that is substantially that of a truncated triangular prism.


2. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the plurality of grid elements are arranged in a grid network that defines the truncated triangular prism.


3. The support structure of claim 1, wherein a plurality of spaces in the grid network allow access to a hollow region of the truncated triangular prism.


4. The support structure of claim 1, wherein access to a hollow region of the truncated triangular prism can be obtained along the plane of truncation.


5. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the grid elements comprise a plurality of first pieces spaced substantially parallel to each other and one or more second pieces connecting the plurality of first pieces to define the three-dimensional shape.


6. The support structure of claim 5, wherein the second pieces are oriented substantially perpendicularly to the first pieces.


7. The support structure of claim 5 wherein each of the plurality of first pieces are substantially truncated triangular in shape.


8. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the truncated triangular prism is substantially in the form of (i) a truncated isosceles triangular prism or (ii) a truncated equilateral triangular prism.


9. The support structure of claim 1, wherein at least one apex of the truncated triangular prism is substantially rounded.


10. The support structure of claim 7 wherein each of the plurality of first pieces are substantially truncated triangular in shape, but do not form a complete truncated triangle.


11. The support structure of claim 10 wherein the incomplete portion of the truncated triangle allows access to a hollow region of the truncated triangular prism.


12. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the frame structure is capable of supporting an electrical device.


13. The support structure of claim 12 wherein the electrical device is selected from the group consisting of decorative devices, lighting devices, heating devices, cooling devices, sensing devices, control devices, communication devices, life safety and health maintenance devices, audio-visual devices and combinations thereof.


14. The support structure of claim 13 wherein the frame structure is capable of supporting one or more of an electrical box, a light, and a communication device.


15. The support structure of claim 13 wherein the frame structure is capable of supporting an electrical panel and one or more cables.


16. The support structure of claim 15, wherein the electrical panel is a solar panel.


17. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the frame structure is capable of supporting a structure selected from a wall, a ceiling, a floor, a roof, or a platform.


18. The support structure of claim 1, wherein the frame structure is capable of supporting electrical materials, plumbing materials, or heating and cooling materials selected from cables, wires, conduit, water lines, sewer lines, drain lines, gas lines, and ductwork.


19. A support system comprising the support structure of claim 1, and a mounting or positioning component selected from the group consisting of a weighting element, a stand or tower, connection hardware, and combinations thereof.


20. A kit comprising the support structure of claim 1 and instructions for installation of the same.


21. The kit of claim 20 wherein the kit further comprises a mounting or positioning component selected from the group consisting of a weighting element, a stand or tower, connection hardware, and combinations thereof.


22. A method of mounting a solar panel, the method comprising attaching a solar panel to the support structure of claim 1. 

