
A holding and fastening device (1) has means for holding at least one photovoltaic module or solar collector module in an alignment suited for the intended use. The device has fastening means for fastening to a roof surface, that allow for a simple and secure attachment of solar modules even to flat roofs while preventing damage to the roof structure and without impairing the leak tightness of the roof. The fastening means have at least one flat support section (7) with a support surface for the plane-parallel support on the roof surface. The support sections (7) may be covered with an adhesive panel, preferably a bitumen panel (18), that can be glued or welded to existing panels on the roof surface. Older roofs can be pretreated for better adhesion.



1. A fastening and holding device, comprising:
means for holding at least one solar module in a predetermined alignment; and
fastening means for fastening to a roof surface, the fastening means having at least one flat support section with a support surface for a plane-parallel support on the roof surface.



2. The fastening and holding device according to claim 1, further comprising that the support surface is configured for aiding an adhesive connection with the roof surface.


3. The fastening and holding device according to claim 1, further comprising
a fastening layer covering the support section and extending beyond the support section; and
an adhesive connection between the fastening layer and the roof surface.



4. The fastening and holding device according to claim 3, further comprising that the fastening layer is a weldable roofing panel.


5. The fastening and holding device according to claim 1, further comprising that the means for holding encompass two carrier elements that are arranged parallel at a distance from each other, each of the two carrier elements having a receiving surface for receiving the solar module at a distance above the roof surface, the receiving surface of one of the two carrier elements being arranged at a different distance from the roof surface than the receiving surface of the other carrier element.


6. The fastening and holding device according to claim 5, further comprising that the receiving surfaces have a lining of vibration-damping material.


7. The fastening and holding device according to claim 5, further comprising that the carrier elements are connected with each other by at least one stabilizing element that is arranged substantially transverse to the carrier elements.


8. The fastening and holding device according to claim 7, further comprising that at least one of the carrier elements or at least one stabilizing element is provided with a vent opening.


9. The fastening and holding device according to claim 5, further comprising that at least one of the carrier elements is provided with connector means for fastening to at least one further carrier element of a further holding and fastening device.


10. The fastening and holding device according to claim 1, further comprising that it is assembled from stamped lightweight sheet metal.


11. An arrangement of a plurality of holding and fastening devices according to claim 1, further comprising that several holding and fastening devices are fastened to one another with connectors.


12. A method of mounting a holding and fastening device according to claim 1 for at least one solar module in a predetermined alignment on a roof surface, the method comprising the steps of:
placing the holding and fastening device on the roof surface with the planar support section in a plane-parallel manner;
placing a fastening layer over the support section, the fastening layer extending beyond the support section; and
creating an adhesive connection between the fastening layer and the roof surface in such a way that the support section is pressed onto the roof surface by the fastening layer.



13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the adhesive connection is created by welding or gluing the fastening layer onto the roof surface.


14. Method according to claim 12, further comprising the step of pretreating the roof surface with a bitumen coating prior to creating the adhesive connection.


15. Method according to claim 12, comprising, after placing a first holding and fastening device on the roof surface, the further step of placing a second holding and fastening device on the roof surface adjacent to the first holding and fastening device;
fastening the second holding and fastening device to the first holding and fastening device;
pressing the support sections of the second holding and fastening device onto the roof surface via the fastening layer.



16. Method according to claim 15, further comprising that a continuous fastening layer is used for fastening both the first and the second support sections.

