
A device for attaching a module for collecting energy originating from solar radiation on a structure such as a roof, a façade or a mounting structure of a ground-mounted system, in which the module is provided with at least one fastener on its face designed to be facing the structure. The device includes at least one support secured to the structure by snap-fitting, the fastener and the support being suitable for being coupled to one another for the attachment of the module to the structure.



1. An attachment device for attaching a module for collecting energy originating from solar radiation on a structure such as a roof, a façade or a mounting structure of a ground-mounted system, in which the module is provided with at least one fastener on its face designed to be facing the structure, the device comprising at least one support secured to the structure, the fastener and the support being suitable for being coupled to one another for the attachment of the module to the structure, wherein the support is secured to the structure by snap-fitting.


2. The attachment device according to claim 1, wherein the support comprises a snap-fitting portion defining an internal volume for receiving a portion of the structure, the snap-fitting portion being elastically deformable and suitable for gripping the portion of the structure in its internal volume.


3. The attachment device according to claim 1 wherein the fastener comprises a profile, as a protrusion or as a recess, suitable for engaging with a matching profile, as a recess or as a protrusion, of the support, the fastener and the support being capable of being coupled to one another by engaging their respective profiles.


4. The attachment device according to claim 3, wherein the profiles of the fastener and of the support each have a cross section which diminishes in one direction of the profile, the profiles of the fastener and of the support being capable of coming into mutual engagement by a sliding movement of one to the other in said direction of the profile.


5. The attachment device according to claim 1, wherein the support comprises a first portion for snap-fitting onto the structure and a second portion for coupling relative to a fastener, the first and second portions being at a distance from one another.


6. The attachment device according to claim 5, comprising at least two fasteners secured to said face of the module and two supports secured to the structure, the distance between the first portion and second portion of one of the supports being different from the distance between the first portion and second portion of the other support so that, in the configuration in which the module is attached to the structure, the module is inclined at an angle in a mid-plane of attachment of modules to the structure.


7. The attachment device according to claim 1, wherein the fastener is made of an electrically insulating material, particularly of a polymer or with a polymer matrix.


8. The attachment device according to claim 1, wherein the support is made of an electrically insulating material, particularly of a polymer or with a polymer matrix.


9. The attachment device according to claim 1, comprising at least two fasteners secured to said face of the module by being evenly distributed over said face of the module and offset internally relative to the peripheral edges of the module.


10. The attachment device according to claim 1, wherein the module is a photovoltaic module with no frame, which comprises a front substrate, a rear substrate and at least one photovoltaic cell inserted between the front substrate and rear substrate, the or each fastener being secured to a face of the rear substrate, the face being opposite to the photovoltaic cell.


11. A mounting method for mounting at least one module for collecting energy originating from solar radiation on a structure, such as a roof, a façade or a mounting structure of a ground-mounted system, using an attachment device according to claim 1, the method comprising:
securing at least one fastener to the face of the module, the face being designed to be facing the structure;
snap-fitting at least one support to the structure;
attaching the module to the structure by coupling the fastener to the support.



12. A mounting method, for mounting at least one module for collecting energy originating from solar radiation on a structure for which a mid-plane for attachment of modules is inclined at an angle relative to the horizontal, using an attachment device according to claim 4, the method comprising:
securing at least one fastener to the face of the module, the face being designed to be facing the structure;
snap-fitting at least one support to the structure, so that the cross section of its profile diminishes in the direction of the ground;
attaching the module to the structure by placing the profiles of the fastener and of the support in mutual engagement by a sliding movement downwards, in the direction of the ground, of the fastener relative to the support.



13. The mounting method according to claim 11, further comprising:
attaching at least a first and a second fastener to the face of the module, the face being designed to be facing the structure;
snap-fitting at least one first and one second support to the structure;
positioning the first fastener facing the first support and adjusting the position, on the structure, of the second support in order to place it facing the second fastener;
attaching the module to the structure by coupling the first and the second fastener respectively to the first and second support.



14. The mounting method according to claim 12, further comprising:
attaching at least a first and a second fastener to the face of the module, the face being designed to be facing the structure;
snap-fitting at least one first and one second support to the structure;
positioning the first fastener facing the first support and adjusting the position, on the structure, of the second support in order to place it facing the second fastener;
attaching the module to the structure by coupling the first and the second fastener respectively to the first and second support. 


