
A photovoltaic panel racking system with integrated grounding bars integrated with an extruded integrated rail. The integrated grounding bar enables grounding of photovoltaic panels to a racking system without the use of additional parts or tools. When photovoltaic panels are installed onto an integrated rail, the grounding bars perforate the anodized coating of the frame of the photovoltaic panels to make metal to metal contacts. The grounding bar may be attached to the underside of solar panel frames. Further, an integrated grounding bar rail reduces the number of roof penetration connections necessary for safe grounding of a photovoltaic system. In a ballast mounted photovoltaic panel system, ballast pans may be used to connect the integrated rails between adjacent rows of photovoltaic panels, thereby further reducing the number of grounding points needed to ground the system.



1. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching at least one photovoltaic panel to at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one mounting rail is configured with an integrated grounding bar;
tightening the at least one photovoltaic panel to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the grounding bar perforates an anodized coating of the at least one photovoltaic panel; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the integrated grounding bar comprises a triangular cross-section wherein the triangular cross-section comprises at least one sharp edge.



3. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated grounding bar comprises serrations spanning the length of a top surface of the mounting rail.


4. The method of claim 3, wherein the serrations are cone-shaped.


5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one screw boss configured to receive self-tapping screws.


6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one slide bolt slot configured to receive slide-in bolts.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein the mounting rail is an extruded rail.


8. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching a first set of photovoltaic panels to a first mounting rail;
attaching a second set of photovoltaic panels to a second mounting rail;
tightening the first and second sets of photovoltaic panels to the first and second mounting rails with mounting clips, wherein a grounding bar perforates anodized coatings of the photovoltaic panels;
securing the photovoltaic system to a surface using a ballast pan, wherein the ballast pan is configured to hold a plurality of ballast blocks, and wherein the ballast pan comprises a first substantially vertical portion and a second substantially vertical portion;
attaching the first mounting rail to the first substantially vertical portion
attaching the second mounting rail to the second substantially vertical portion.



9. The method of claim 8, wherein:
the first and second substantially vertical portions are bent to form oblique angles with a flat intermediate portion; and
the first substantially vertical portion is a different height than the second substantially vertical portion.



10. The method of claim 8, wherein the ballast pan is made from one of the group consisting of galvanized steel and aluminum.


11. The method of claim 8, wherein the first and second mounting rails are configured with a wire raceway to accept a grounding wire.


12. A photovoltaic grounding system, comprising:
a mounting rail comprising an integrated grounding bar; and
mounting clips configured to tighten photovoltaic panels to the mounting rail,
wherein the integrated grounding bar perforates anodized aluminum frame surfaces of the photovoltaic panels.



13. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 12, wherein:
the integrated grounding bar comprises a triangular cross-section, wherein the triangular cross-section comprises at least one sharp edge.



14. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 12, wherein the integrated grounding bar comprises serrations spanning the length of a top surface of the mounting rail.


15. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 14, wherein the serrations are cone-shaped.


16. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 12, wherein the mounting rail further comprises at least one screw boss configured to receive self-tapping screws.


17. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 12, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one slide bolt slot configured to receive slide-in bolts.


18. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 12, further comprising at least one ballast block in at least one ballast pan, wherein the at least one ballast pan comprises:
a flat portion;
a first substantially vertical portion; and
a second substantially vertical portion, wherein the first and second substantially vertical portions are configured to attach to the mounting rail.



19. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 18, wherein:
the first and second substantially vertical portions are bent to form oblique angles with the flat horizontal portion; and
the first substantially vertical portion has a different height than the second substantially vertical portion.



20. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 18, wherein the ballast pan is made from one of the group consisting of galvanized steel and aluminum.


21. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 18, wherein the mounting rail is configured with a wire raceway to accept a grounding wire.


22. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching at least one photovoltaic panel frame to at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one photovoltaic panel frame is configured with an integrated grounding bar;
tightening the photovoltaic panel frame to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the integrated grounding bar perforates a surface of the mounting rail; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail.



23. The method of claim 22, wherein:
the integrated grounding bar comprises at least one sharp edge, and wherein the integrated grounding bar comprises a triangular cross-section.



24. The method of claim 22, wherein the integrated grounding bar comprises serrations spanning the length of a top surface of the integrated rail.


25. The method of claim 24, wherein the serrations are cone-shaped.


26. The method of claim 22, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one screw boss configured to receive self-tapping screws.


27. The method of claim 22, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one slide bolt slot configured to receive slide-in bolts.


28. The method of claim 22, wherein the mounting rail is an extruded rail.


29. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching a first set of photovoltaic panel frames to a first mounting rail;
attaching a second set of photovoltaic panel frames to a second mounting rail;
tightening the first and second sets of photovoltaic panels to the first and second mounting rails with mounting clips, wherein a grounding bar perforates surfaces of the mounting rails;
securing the photovoltaic system to a surface using a ballast pan, wherein the ballast pan is configured to hold a plurality of ballast blocks, and wherein the ballast pan comprises a first substantially vertical portion and a second substantially vertical portion;
attaching the first mounting rail to the first substantially vertical portion
attaching the second mounting rail to the second substantially vertical portion.



30. The method of claim 29, wherein:
the first and second substantially vertical portions are bent to form oblique angles with a flat intermediate portion; and
the first substantially vertical portion is a different height than the second substantially vertical portion.



31. The method of claim 29, wherein the ballast pan is made from one of the group consisting of galvanized steel and aluminum.


32. The method of claim 29, wherein the first and second mounting rails are configured with a wire raceway to accept a grounding wire.


33. A photovoltaic grounding system, comprising:
a photovoltaic panel frame comprising an integrated grounding bar;
a mounting rail; and
mounting clips configured to tighten photovoltaic panel frame to the mounting rail,
wherein the integrated grounding bar perforates a surface of the photovoltaic panels frame.



34. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 33, wherein:
the integrated grounding bar comprises a triangular cross-section, wherein the triangular cross-section comprises at least one sharp edge.



35. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 33, wherein the integrated grounding bar comprises serrations spanning the length of a top surface of the mounting rail.


36. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 35, wherein the serrations are cone-shaped.


37. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 33, wherein the mounting rail further comprises at least one screw boss configured to receive self-tapping screws.


38. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 33, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least one slide bolt slot configured to receive slide-in bolts.


39. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 33, further comprising at least one ballast block in at least one ballast pan, wherein the at least one ballast pan comprises:
a flat portion;
a first substantially vertical portion; and
a second substantially vertical portion, wherein the first and second substantially vertical portions are configured to attach to the mounting rail.



40. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 39, wherein:
the first and second substantially vertical portions are bent to form oblique angles with the flat horizontal portion; and
the first substantially vertical portion has a different height than the second substantially vertical portion.



41. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 39, wherein the ballast pan is made from one of the group consisting of galvanized steel and aluminum.


42. The photovoltaic grounding system of claim 39, wherein the mounting rail is configured with a wire raceway to accept a grounding wire.

