
Apparatus and techniques for mounting frameless photovoltaic modules reduce module stress induced by the mounting configuration. Mounting clamps and rail/clamp spacing and spacers configured to relieve module stress by reducing or eliminating module sag are used.



1. A photovoltaic assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet;
a mounting structure comprising module mounting rails;
clamps attached to at least two of the mounting rails and clamped to the frontside sheet and the backside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the frameless photovoltaic module overlying the at least two mounting rails, thereby securing the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure; and
spacers disposed between the backside sheet and each of the at least two mounting rails in a gap created by portions of the clamps interposed between the backside of the module and the faces of the at least two mounting rails closest to the backside sheet, the spacers configured to prevent substantial deflection of the module into the gap.



2. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the clamps have a substantially C shape.


3. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module comprises an elastomer.


4. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the spacer comprises an elastomer.


5. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 3, wherein the spacer comprises the same elastomer as the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module.


6. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 5, wherein the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module and the spacer have substantially the same thickness.


7. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 5, wherein the elastomer is selected from the group consisting of EPDM rubber, butyl rubber and silicone rubber.


8. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 7, wherein the elastomer is EPDM rubber.


9. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 8, wherein the EPDM rubber has a Shore hardness of about 60A.


10. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 5, wherein the elastomer is about 3 mm thick.


11. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the spacer is attached to the at least two rails.


12. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the spacer is attached to the backside sheet of the module.


13. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


14. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 13, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


15. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 13, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


16. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 15, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


17. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the rails and the clamps are aligned, and the rails are positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


18. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the clamps are offset from the rails, and the clamps are clamped to the module about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


19. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


20. A method of installing a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet onto a mounting structure, the method comprising:
providing the mounting structure comprising module mounting rails; and
securing the frameless photovoltaic module onto the mounting structure with clamps attached to at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside and backside sheets of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying the at least two rails;
wherein a spacer is disposed between the backside sheet and each of the at least two rails in a gap created by the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module, the spacer configured to prevent substantial deflection of the module into the gap.



21. The method of claim 20, further comprising attaching the spacer to the at least two rails prior to securing the module.


22. The method of claim 20, further comprising attaching the spacer to the module prior to securing the module.


23. The method of claim 20, wherein the clamps have a substantially C shape.


24. The method of claim 20, wherein the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module comprises an elastomer.


25. The method of claim 20, wherein the spacer comprises an elastomer.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein the spacer comprises the same elastomer as the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module.


27. The method of claim 26, wherein the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module and the spacer have substantially the same thickness.


28. The method of claim 27, wherein the elastomer is EPDM rubber having a Shore hardness of about 60A.


29. The method of claim 28, wherein the elastomer is about 3 mm thick.


30. The method of claim 20, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


31. The method of claim 20, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


32. The method of claim 20, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


33. The method of claim 32, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


34. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the rails and the clamps are aligned, and the rails are positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


35. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least two rails comprises two rails, the clamps are offset from the rails, and the clamps are clamped to the module about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


36. The method of claim 20, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


37. A photovoltaic assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside glass sheet and a backside non-glass flexible sheet;
a mounting structure comprising module mounting rails;
C-shaped clamps aligned with and attached to two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside and backside sheets of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying the two rails, thereby securing the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure, the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module comprising an elastomer; and
an elastomeric spacer disposed between the backside sheet and each of the two rails in a gap created by the portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module, the elastomeric spacer having substantially the same thickness as the elastomer portion of the clamps engaging the backside of the module. 


