
A mounting apparatus, primarily for solar panels and other renewable energy panels. The mounting apparatus has a base, sides, a front, a back, and a top. It is generally wedge-shaped. It has a depression designed to fit photovoltaic and solar thermal panels. It has a number of mounting mechanisms, including ballast, tethers, and fasteners, designed to minimize the number of roof-top holes needed to anchor a system.



1. A mounting apparatus comprising: a base member; a pair of side walls extending vertically from the base; a rear wall that extends upward from the base at an angle less than 90 degrees; a front wall that extends from the base member; and a top surface that extends from the front wall to the rear wall and is intersected by the two side walls.


2. The invention as described in 1, in which the shape of the mounting apparatus is wedge-shaped, with the front wall being the narrow part and the rear wall being the tall part.


3. The invention as described in 2, in which the angle of the wedge is selected to maximize the amount of sunlight incident on a panel installed to the mounting apparatus.


4. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus has a cutout to facilitate the mounting of solar panels.


5. The invention as described in 4, in which the cutout is replaced with a blank panel, so that the surface of the mounting apparatus can be used for mounting.


6. The invention as described in 1, in which the top and/or side have cutouts for mounting hardware.


7. The invention as described in 1, in which there are a plurality of semi-circular other semi-round cutouts to route conduits for water or electricity.


8. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus contains a ballast cavity.


9. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus contains lips on their front and back walls, so that multiple mounting apparatus may be hooked together, front-to-back.


10. The invention as described in 1, in which the sides of the mounting apparatus have tabs and sleeves, so that multiple mounting apparatus may be hooked together, side-by-side.


11. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus contains tether holes.


12. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus contains drawers, capable of holding water, ballast, a heat exchanger, etc.


13. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus has at lease one pipe containing holes, and plumbing connecting the pipe to a liquid source, so that the liquid can be pumped from the interior of the mounting apparatus onto its surface.


14. The invention as described in 1, in which the mounting apparatus is modular, with at least two sections.


15. The invention as described in 14, in which the modular mounting apparatus has at least three sections.


16. The invention as described in 14, in which the modular sections fit together through the use of male and female locking sleeves.

