
A distributed power system including multiple DC power sources and multiple power modules. The power modules include inputs coupled respectively to the DC power sources and outputs coupled in series to form a serial string. An inverter is coupled to the serial string. The inverter converts power input from the serial string to output power. A signaling mechanism between the inverter and the power module is adapted for controlling operation of the power modules.



1. An enhanced component solar power system comprising:
at least one solar photovoltaic source providing a DC photovoltaic input that has two DC power lines;
a parallel inductive element connected across said two DC power lines as part of a path;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said parallel inductive element that establishes a first alternative circuitry path across said DC power lines through said parallel inductive element and a second alternative circuitry path across said DC power lines through said parallel inductive element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry in said first alternative circuitry path;
an alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry in said second alternative circuitry path; and
a smoothed photovoltaic DC power output connected to said capacitor path in said first alternative circuitry path and said second alternative circuitry path.



2. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 and further comprising a substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter.


3. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 2 wherein said substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter comprises a maximum power point converter.


4. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 46, and further comprising:
a photovoltaic DC-AC inverter responsive to said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output; and
a photovoltaic AC power output responsive to said photovoltaic DC-AC inverter.



5. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 wherein said alternative switch circuitry comprises:
a first switch element connected to said parallel inductive element: and
a second switch element connected to said parallel inductive element and across said capacitor path.



6. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 wherein said DC photovoltaic input has an alternating current component superimposed on a DC signal, and further comprising a low ripple controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive.


7. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 5 wherein said capacitor path operatively stores a maximum operative capacitor energy, wherein said parallel inductive element operatively stores a maximum operative inductor energy, and wherein said maximum operative capacitor energy is substantially greater than said maximum operative inductor energy.


8. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 comprises and further comprising a boost controller.


9. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 8 and further comprises a buck controller.


10. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 and further comprising large voltage variation interim signal circuitry.


11. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 10 wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry is at least about double voltage variation signal creation circuitry.


12. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 10 wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry comprises a voltage transformer.


13. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 and further comprising a full circuit component bypass capacitor.


14. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 13 wherein said full circuit component bypass capacitor comprises a relatively small bypass capacitor.


15. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 14 wherein said relatively small bypass capacitor comprises a high frequency operative energy storage bypass capacitor.


16. An enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 and further comprising at least one antiparallel diode.


17. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 1 further comprising a diode, wherein said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output is connected to said second alternative circuitry path through said alternative switch circuitry and said diode.


18. A device with power factor correction having enhanced life comprising:
operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry for said device and having at least one internal, substantially DC device voltage in two DC power lines;
an inductive element connected to one of said DC power lines;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said inductive element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
an alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
a power factor controller to which said operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry for said device is responsive;
a low ripple controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive: and
an internal low ripple DC voltage connected to said capacitor path and said alternative circuitry path and responsive to said low ripple controller.



19. An enhanced component solar power system comprising:
at least one solar photovoltaic source providing a DC photovoltaic input that has two DC power lines;
a parallel inductive element connected across said two DC power lines as part of a path;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said parallel inductive element that establishes a first alternative circuitry path across said DC power lines through said parallel inductive element and a second alternative circuitry path across said DC power lines through said parallel inductive element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry in said first alternative circuitry path;
a third alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry in said second alternative circuitry path; and
a smoothed photovoltaic DC power output connected to said capacitor path in said first alternative circuitry path and connected to said second alternative circuitry path.



20. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising a substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter.


21. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising a DC-DC power converter configured to convert substantially all of power received at an input to the DC-DC power converter to converted DC power at an output of the DC-DC power converter.


22. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 20 wherein said substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter comprises a maximum power point converter.


23. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising:
a photovoltaic DC-AC inverter responsive to said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output; and
a photovoltaic AC power output responsive to said photovoltaic DC-AC inverter.



24. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, wherein said alternative switch circuitry comprises:
a first switch element connected to said parallel inductive element: and
a second switch element connected to said parallel inductive element and across said capacitor path.



25. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, wherein said DC photovoltaic input has an alternating current component superimposed on a DC signal, and further comprising a low ripple controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive.


26. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 25, wherein said capacitor path operatively stores a maximum operative capacitor energy, wherein said parallel inductive element operatively stores a maximum operative inductor energy, and wherein said maximum operative capacitor energy is substantially greater than said maximum operative inductor energy.


27. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising a boost controller.


28. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 27, further comprising a buck controller.


29. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising large voltage variation interim signal circuitry.


30. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 29, wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry is at least about double voltage variation signal creation circuitry.


31. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 29, wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry comprises a voltage transformer.


32. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising a full circuit component bypass capacitor.


33. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 32, wherein said full circuit component bypass capacitor comprises a relatively small bypass capacitor.


34. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 32, wherein said full circuit component bypass capacitor comprises a 1 uF bypass capacitor.


35. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 33, wherein said relatively small bypass capacitor comprises a high frequency operative energy storage bypass capacitor.


36. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 33, wherein said relatively small bypass capacitor comprises a high frequency ceramic bypass capacitor.


37. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising at least one antiparallel diode.


38. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 19, further comprising a diode, wherein said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output is connected to said second alternative circuitry path through said alternative switch circuitry and said diode.


39. A solar power system comprising:
a solar photovoltaic source configured to provide DC photovoltaic power across first and second input terminals;
a parallel inductor element having first and second inductor terminals, the first inductor terminal electrically coupled to the first input terminal;
a switching circuit having first second switched terminals, the switching circuit configured to, in response to one or more control inputs, selectively electrically couple the first switched terminal and the second switched terminal to the second inductor terminal;
a capacitor having first and second capacitor terminals, the first capacitor terminal electrically coupled to said first switched terminal, and the second capacitor terminal electrically coupled to said second input terminal;
an circuit path electrically coupling the second switched terminal to the second input terminal; and
a photovoltaic DC power output having first and second output terminals, the first output terminal electrically coupled to the first capacitor terminal and the second inductor terminal, and the second output terminal electrically coupled to the second input terminal.



40. The solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising a DC-DC power converter configured to convert substantially all of power received at an input to the DC-DC power converter to converted DC power at an output of the DC-DC power converter.


41. The solar power system as described in claim 40 wherein said DC-DC power converter comprises a maximum power point converter.


42. The solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising:
a photovoltaic DC-AC inverter responsive to said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output; and
a photovoltaic AC power output responsive to said photovoltaic DC-AC inverter.



43. The solar power system as described in claim 39, wherein said switching circuit comprises:
a first switch connected between said second inductor terminal and said first switched terminal: and
a second switch connected between said second inductor terminal and said second switched terminal.



44. The solar power system as described in claim 39, wherein said DC photovoltaic power has an alternating current component superimposed on a DC signal, the solar power system further comprising a controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive to cause the alternating current.


45. The solar power system as described in claim 44, wherein said capacitor stores a maximum operative capacitor energy, wherein said parallel inductor operatively stores a maximum operative inductor energy, and wherein said maximum operative capacitor energy is substantially greater than said maximum operative inductor energy.


46. The solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising a boost controller.


47. The solar power system as described in claim 46, further comprising a buck controller.


48. The solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising converter circuitry configured to vary a voltage of the DC photovoltaic power across the first and second input terminals to a different a value that is different from a voltage of converted DC power across the first and second output terminals.


49. The solar power system as described in claim 48, wherein said converter circuitry is at least about double voltage boost converter circuitry.


50. The solar power system as described in claim 48, wherein said converter circuitry comprises a DC-DC power converter configured to transform the voltage of the DC photovoltaic power across the first and second input terminals to the value that is different from the voltage of the converted DC power across the first and second output terminals.


51. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising a full circuit component bypass capacitor.


52. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 51 wherein said full circuit component bypass capacitor comprises a luF bypass capacitor


53. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 52, wherein said bypass capacitor comprises a high frequency ceramic bypass capacitor.


54. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising at least one antiparallel diode.


55. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 39, further comprising a diode electrically coupling the first output terminal to the second inductor terminal.


56. A device with maximum power point tracking having enhanced life comprising:
operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry having at least one internal, substantially DC voltage across two DC power lines;
an inductive element connected to one of said DC power lines;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said inductive element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
an alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
a maximum power point controller to which said operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry is responsive;
a controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive: and
an internal low ripple DC voltage output connected to said capacitor path and said alternative circuitry path and responsive to said controller.



57. An enhanced component solar power system comprising:
at least one solar photovoltaic source providing a DC photovoltaic input;
an inductive element connected to said DC photovoltaic input;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said inductor element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
an alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry; and
a smoothed photovoltaic DC power output connected to said capacitor path and said alternative circuitry path.



58. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57, and further comprising a substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter.


59. The solar power system as described in claim 57, further comprising a DC-DC power converter configured to convert substantially all of power received at an input to the DC-DC power converter to converted DC power at an output of the DC-DC power converter.


60. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 58 wherein said substantially power isomorphic photovoltaic DC-DC power converter comprises a maximum power point converter.


61. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57, further comprising:
a photovoltaic DC-AC inverter responsive to said smoothed photovoltaic DC power output; and
a photovoltaic AC power output responsive to said photovoltaic DC-AC inverter.



62. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57, wherein said alternative switch circuitry comprises:
a first switch element connected to said inductive element; and
a second switch element connected to said inductive element and across said capacitor path.



63. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57, wherein said DC photovoltaic input has an alternating current component superimposed on a DC signal, and further comprising a low ripple controller to which said alternative switch path is responsive.


64. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 63, wherein said capacitor path operatively stores a maximum operative capacitor energy, wherein said inductive element operatively stores a maximum operative inductor energy, and wherein said maximum operative capacitor energy is substantially greater than said maximum operative inductor energy.


65. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57, further comprising a boost controller.


66. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 65 and further comprises a buck controller.


67. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57 and further comprising large voltage variation interim signal circuitry.


68. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 67, wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry is at least about double voltage variation signal creation circuitry.


69. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 67, wherein said large voltage variation interim signal circuitry comprises a voltage transformer.


70. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57 and further comprising a full circuit component bypass capacitor.


71. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 70 wherein said full circuit component bypass capacitor comprises a relatively small bypass capacitor.


72. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 71 wherein said relatively small bypass capacitor comprises a high frequency operative energy storage bypass capacitor.


73. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 57 and further comprising at least one antiparallel diode.


74. A device with enhanced life power factor correction comprising:
operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry for said device and having at least one internal, substantially DC device voltage;
an inductive element connected to said DC device signal;
alternative switch circuitry connected to said inductive element;
a capacitor path responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
an alternative circuitry path also responsive to said alternative switch circuitry;
a power factor controller to which said operationally active solar photovoltaic power circuitry is responsive;
a low ripple controller to which said alternative switch circuitry is responsive; and
an internal low ripple DC voltage connected to said capacitor path and said alternative circuitry path and responsive to said low ripple controller.



75. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 7, wherein said alternative path controller comprises a switch frequency controller.


76. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 26, wherein said alternative path controller comprises a switch frequency controller.


77. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 45, wherein said alternative path controller comprises a switch frequency controller.


78. The enhanced component solar power system as described in claim 64, wherein said alternative path controller comprises a switch frequency controller. 

