
A photovoltaic inverter for coupling a direct current photovoltaic source to an alternating current energy grid and performing a low voltage ride through. The inverter includes a power bridge to convert direct current voltage to alternating current voltage. A switching crowbar is coupled to the photovoltaic energy source and the power bridge. The crowbar has a switching device having a closed position causing the switching crowbar to dissipate energy from the photovoltaic energy source and an open position to allow direct output from the photovoltaic source to the power bridge. A voltage sensor detects a low voltage condition on the grid. A controller is coupled to the voltage sensor and controls the switching crowbar when a low voltage condition is detected. The switching device is placed in the closed position when the voltage from the photovoltaic energy source is higher than a predetermined threshold voltage and the switching device being placed in the open position when the voltage of the photovoltaic source reaches the voltage when the low voltage condition is detected.



1. A method of regulating the voltage output of an inverter coupled between a photovoltaic source and a power grid to perform a low voltage ride through (LVRT) operation, the method comprising:
sensing an occurrence of low voltage on the power grid; and
controlling a crowbar circuit with a switching device in parallel with the photovoltaic source to create a closed circuit to dissipate power from the photovoltaic source at a pre-determined threshold voltage and to open the closed circuit when the voltage from the photovoltaic source is at substantially the operating voltage of the photovoltaic source just prior to the occurrence of the low voltage.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein the switching device is an insulated gate bipolar transistor.


3. The method of claim 1, wherein the crowbar circuit includes a diode and a resistor in parallel with each other and in series with the switching device.


4. The method of claim 1, wherein the resistance value of the resistor chosen by:


R=(Vpv-max+ΔV)2/Ppv-max 

where Vpv-max is the maximum voltage at a maximum power point of the PV source, Ppv-max is the maximum power of the photovoltaic source and ΔV is a value that is a function of the maximum voltage of the photovoltaic source.



5. The method of claim 1, wherein the low voltage on the voltage grid is substantially zero volts.


6. The method of claim 1, wherein the inverter includes a power bridge including a plurality of medium voltage switching devices.


7. The method of claim 6, wherein the switching devices are insulated gate bipolar transistors.


8. The method of claim 1, wherein the maximum voltage for the crowbar circuit is selected to regulate at a predetermined voltage range on the LVRT operation.


9. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined threshold voltage is ΔV and the voltage of the photovoltaic source when the low voltage on the power grid is sensed, wherein ΔV is substantially 10% of the maximum voltage output of the photovoltaic source.


10. The method of claim 6, further comprising modeling the current of the power bridge before the low voltage is detected and applying the modeled current by controlling the power bridge during the LVRT operation.


11. A photovoltaic inverter for coupling a direct current photovoltaic source to an alternating current electrical grid and performing a low voltage ride through (LVRT) operation, the inverter comprising:
a power bridge to convert direct current voltage to alternating current voltage, the power bridge coupled to the electrical grid;
a switching crowbar coupled to the photovoltaic energy source and the power bridge, the crowbar having a switching device having a closed position causing the switching crowbar to dissipate energy from the photovoltaic energy source and an open position to allow direct output from the photovoltaic source to the power bridge;
a voltage sensor to detect a low voltage condition on the grid; and
a controller coupled to the voltage sensor and controlling the switching crowbar when a low voltage condition is detected, the switching device being placed in the closed position when the voltage from the photovoltaic energy source is higher than a predetermined threshold voltage and the switching device being placed in the open position when the voltage of the PV source reaches the voltage when the low voltage condition is detected.



12. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the switching device is an insulated gate bipolar transistor.


13. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the switching crowbar includes a diode and a resistor in parallel with each other and in series with the switching device.


14. The inverter of claim 13, the resistance value of the resistor chosen by:


R=(Vpv-max+ΔV)2/Ppv-max 


where Vpv-max is the maximum voltage at a maximum power point of the PV source, Ppv-max is the maximum power of the PV source and ΔV is a value that is a function of the maximum voltage of the PV source.


15. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the low voltage on the voltage grid is substantially zero volts.


16. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the power bridge includes a plurality of medium voltage switching devices.


17. The inverter of claim 16, wherein the switching devices are insulated gate bipolar transistors.


18. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the maximum voltage for the crowbar circuit is selected to regulate at a predetermined voltage range on the LVRT operation.


19. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the predetermined threshold voltage is ΔV and the voltage of the PV source when the low voltage on the power grid is sensed, wherein ΔV is substantially 10% of the maximum voltage output of the PV source.


20. The inverter of claim 11, wherein the controller models the current of the bridge before the low voltage is detected and applies the modeled current by controlling the power bridge during the LVRT operation.

