
Disclosed herein is a mounting rail for a solar array support structure that includes a main body having a top and a bottom, the main body extending from a first end to a second end, the main body including a dual web having a first vertical element and a second vertical element. Further, the mounting rail includes a solar panel mounting portion extending along the top of the main body, the solar panel mounting portion configured to secure the solar panel to the mounting rail. Finally, the mounting rail includes a first flange extending from the bottom of the first vertical element, the first flange including a first pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the first pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a horizontal rail of a solar array support structure. 



1. A mounting rail for a solar array support structure comprising: 
a main body having a top and a bottom, the main body extending from a first end to a second end, the main body including a dual web having a first vertical element and a second vertical element; 
a solar panel mounting portion extending along the top of the main body, the solar panel mounting portion configured to secure the solar panel to the mounting rail; and 
a first flange extending from the bottom of the first vertical element, the first flange including a first pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the first pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a horizontal rail of a solar array support structure. 

 

2. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 1, wherein the solar panel mounting portion comprises a channel extending along the top of the main body, the channel configured to retainably receive an attachment mechanism for attaching a solar panel to the mounting rail. 
 

3. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 1, further comprising a second flange extending from the bottom of the second vertical element, the second flange including a second pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the second pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a horizontal rail of the solar array support structure. 
 

4. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 3, further comprising: 
a third pair of holes in the first flange, the third pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the third pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a horizontal rail of a solar array support structure; and 
a fourth pair of holes in the second flange, the fourth pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the fourth pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a horizontal rail of a solar array support structure. 

 

5. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 1, wherein the first flange extends from the bottom of the first vertical element to a vertical bend. 
 

6. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 2, wherein the attachment mechanism is a bolt. 
 

7. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 6, wherein the channel is configured to receive a head of the bolt from at least one of the first end and the second end such that the head is slidably retained within the channel and the bolt extends from the channel above the top of the main body. 
 

8. The mounting rail for a solar array support structure of claim 3, further comprising a first projection extending from the top of the first vertical element and a second projection extending from the top of the second vertical element, wherein the first and second flanges extend a greater distance from the bottom of the first and second vertical elements than the first and second projections extend from the top of the first and second vertical elements. 
 

9. A solar array support structure comprising: 
a vertical support column extending from a ground; 
a horizontal rail attached to the vertical support column; 
a mounting rail extending from a first end to a second end and including a top and a bottom, the mounting rail further including: 
a first vertical element; 
a solar panel mounting portion extending along the top of the main body, the solar panel mounting portion configured to secure the solar panel to the mounting rail; and 
a first flange extending from the bottom of the first vertical element, the first flange including a first pair of holes spaced apart corresponding to a width of the horizontal rail; 

a U-bolt attaching the horizontal rail with the mounting rail; and 
a solar panel attached to the mounting rail with the attachment mechanism. 

 

10. The solar array support structure of claim 9, wherein the U-bolt has ends inserted into the first pair of holes. 
 

11. The solar array support structure of claim 9, further comprising a saddle clamp located on the first flange, wherein the U-bolt is inserted into two holes of the saddle clamp. 
 

12. The solar array support structure of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail further includes a second flange extending from the bottom of the mounting rail, the second flange including a second pair of holes configured to receive two ends of a U-bolt, the second pair of holes spaced apart substantially equal to a width of a second horizontal rail of a solar array support structure. 
 

13. The solar array support structure of claim 12, further comprising a second U-bolt having ends inserted into second pair of holes of the mounting rail and attaching the second horizontal rail with the mounting rail. 
 

14. The solar array support structure of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail is a dual web mounting rail having a second vertical element. 
 

15. The solar array support structure of claim 9, wherein the solar panel mounting portion is a channel extending along the top of the mounting rail, the channel configured to retainably receive an attachment mechanism. 
 

16. The solar array support structure of claim 15, wherein the attachment mechanism is a bolt and wherein the channel is configured to receive a head of the bolt from at least one of the first end and the second end such that the head is slidably retained within the channel and the bolt extends from the channel above the top of the mounting rail. 
 

17. The solar array support structure of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail is attached to the horizontal rail at an acute angle relative the ground. 
 

18. A method of installing a solar array support structure comprising: 
locating a mounting rail in the proximity to a horizontal rail of the solar array support structure; 
cradling the horizontal rail with a U-bolt; 
inserting each end of a U-bolt within a corresponding hole of the mounting rail; and 
securely attaching the mounting rail directly to the horizontal rail. 

 

19. The method of installing a solar array support structure of claim 18, further comprising inserting an attachment mechanism into a channel of the mounting rail such that the attachment mechanism is retained within the channel. 
 

20. The method of installing a solar array support structure of claim 19, further comprising attaching a solar panel to the mounting rail with the attachment mechanism. 
 

21. The method of installing a solar array support structure of claim 18, further comprising attaching the horizontal rail to a vertical support column that extends from the ground. 
 

22. The method of installing a solar array support structure of claim 18, further comprising cradling a second horizontal rail with a second U-bolt and inserting each end of the second U-bolt within a corresponding hole of the mounting rail and securely attaching the mounting rail directly to the second horizontal rail. 
 

23. A solar array support structure comprising: 
a vertical support column extending from a ground; 
a horizontal rail attached to the vertical support column; 
a mounting rail extending from a first end to a second end and including a top and a bottom, the mounting rail further including: 
a first vertical element; 
a first channel extending along the top of the mounting rail, the channel configured to retainably receive an attachment mechanism; and 
a first flange extending from the bottom of the first vertical element; 

a clamping element having two openings; 
a U-bolt extending through the two openings of the clamping element, wherein the U-bolt attaches the horizontal rail with the mounting rail, and wherein the U-bolt further attaches the clamping element to the first flange; and 
a solar panel attached to the mounting rail with the attachment mechanism. 

 

24. The solar array support structure of claim 23, wherein the first flange includes a second channel, wherein the clamping element is secured within the second channel by the U-bolt. 
 

25. The solar array support structure of claim 23, wherein the first flange extends to a vertical bend, wherein a second channel is created by the first vertical element, the first flange, and the vertical bend. 
 

26. The solar array support structure of claim 25, wherein the clamping element has an E-shaped cross section.
 
