
A junction box for a solar module, including a base that is parallel to a mounting surface for the solar module; an inner cavity formed by a housing and closed by a cover; a connecting conductor for putting out electricity generated by the solar module and connected in the inner cavity with a contact for the solar module, and a test contact that is accessible in a direction substantially perpendicular to the base. The connecting conductor exits the inner cavity and is provided with a plug connector that is arranged in a support device at the junction box, wherein the test contact is electrically connected with a connecting contact of the plug connector of the connecting conductor, and wherein a function of the junction box is testable through feeding an electrical voltage into the test contact.



1. A junction box for a solar module, comprising:
a base that is parallel to a mounting surface for the solar module;
an inner cavity formed by a housing and closed by a cover;
a connecting conductor for putting out electricity generated by the solar module and connected in the inner cavity with a contact for the solar module; and
a test contact that is accessible in a direction substantially perpendicular to the base,
wherein the connecting conductor exits the inner cavity and is provided with a plug connector that is arranged in a support device at the junction box,
wherein the test contact is electrically connected with a connecting contact of the plug connector of the connecting conductor, and
wherein a function of the junction box is testable through feeding an electrical voltage into the test contact.



2. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the connecting contact of the plug connector and the test contact are separate components.


3. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the test contact is arranged at the housing.


4. The junction box according to claim 2, wherein the test contact is in electrical contact with the connecting contact of the plug connector.


5. The junction box according to claim 1,
wherein the housing forms a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug connector and configured as a support device, and
wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism.



6. The junction box according to claim 5,
wherein the plug-in mechanism supports the test contact which is electrically connected with its connecting contact when the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism, and
wherein the test contact is accessible through an opening oriented substantially perpendicular to the base.



7. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the connecting contact of the plug connector is accessible only in a substantially horizontal direction since the plug connector is arranged in the support device.


8. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the junction box includes centering mechanisms configured to center the junction box relative to a test tool.


9. The junction box according to claim 1,
wherein the test contact is formed by the connecting contact of the plug connector, and
wherein the connecting contact is accessible through an opening in the plug connector where the opening is substantially oriented perpendicular to the base.



10. The junction box according to claim 2, wherein the test contact is arranged at the housing.


11. The junction box according to claim 2,
wherein the housing forms a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug connector and configured as a support device, and
wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism.



12. The junction box according to claim 3,
wherein the housing forms a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug connector and configured as a support device, and
wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism.



13. The junction box according to claim 4,
wherein the housing forms a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug connector and configured as a support device, and
wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism.


