
A photovoltaic module mounting cartridge has a frame structure for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules thereon, the frame structure having supports for engaging with and supporting an associated mounting rail provided on the underside of a photovoltaic module such that the photovoltaic module can be selectively installed or removed from the cartridge. A method of assembling a photovoltaic module mounting cartridge is also described, comprising providing a frame structure, providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules having at least one associated mounting rail, arranging the photovoltaic modules atop the frame structure, and attaching each associated mounting rail to the frame structure.



1. A photovoltaic module mounting cartridge, comprising:
a frame structure for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules thereon in an array, the frame structure having supports for engaging with and supporting a mounting rail provided on the underside of each photovoltaic module such that the photovoltaic module can be selectively installed or removed from the cartridge.



2. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 1, wherein the frame structure comprises:
a top beam;
first and second side beams;
a bottom beam; and
a center beam between the top and bottom beams.



3. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein the top and bottom beams are joined to each of the, first and second side beams.


4. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 3, wherein the frame structure further comprises corner joining elements between:
the top beam and first side beam;
the top beam and second side beam;
the bottom beam and first side beam; and
the bottom beam and second side beam.



5. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein supports are provided at the first and second side beams and at the center beam such that photovoltaic modules can be supported between the center beam and each of the first and second side beams.


6. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 5, wherein the supports of the first and second side beams and the center beam are mounting ridges atop which mounting rails can rest.


7. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 6, wherein the mounting ridges are on an inside surface of each of the first and second side beams and on opposing side surfaces of the center beam.


8. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 7, further comprising a plurality of photovoltaic modules mounted thereon, each photovoltaic module having a plurality of mounting rails on an underside surface which rests on the supports.


9. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 8, wherein end sides of the module mounting rails include one or more mounting holes for receiving a fastening element for affixing the mounting rails to the frame structure.


10. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 9, wherein the first and second side beams and the center beam each have a plurality of mounting holes for receiving a fastening element.


11. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 10, wherein the mounting holes on the first and second side beams and the center beam are threaded screw holes.


12. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 9, wherein the first and second side beams have a plurality of mounting holes, and the center beam has a plurality of corresponding mounting posts which are configured to engage the mounting holes on the end sides of the mounting rails.


13. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 9, wherein the first and second side beams have a plurality of mounting posts which are configured to engage the mounting holes on the end sides of the mounting rails, and the center beam has a plurality of mounting holes for receiving a fastening element.


14. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 8, wherein the center beam has a plurality of mounting holes which are configured to engage a plurality of mounting posts on the end sides of the mounting rails.


15. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein each of the top, bottom, first side, second side and center beams are hollow.


16. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein each of the top, bottom, first side, second side and center beams comprise a rolled metallic structure.


17. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein each of the top, bottom, first side, second side and center beams have a longitudinally extending reinforced area.


18. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 17, wherein the reinforced area is at one of the top or bottom of each of the top, bottom, first side, second side and center beams.


19. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein each of the top, bottom, first side and second side beams have an upwardly extending flange which is configured to engage an underside of a corresponding top, bottom, first side or second side beam of another photovoltaic module mounting cartridge to facilitate stacking of cartridges.


20. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, wherein the center beam has end mounting flanges for attaching to the top and bottom beams.


21. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 20, wherein the end mounting flanges of the center beam have mounting holes through which a fastener may be passed to attach the center beam to each of the top and bottom beams.


22. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 7, wherein the frame structure comprises a plurality of spaced center beams between the top and bottom beams.


23. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, further comprising a plurality of photovoltaic modules attached to the frame structure, wherein the mounting rails of the photovoltaic modules are attached to the frame structure between either of the first or second side beams and the center beam.


24. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 23, further comprising a second center beam and wherein a plurality of photovoltaic modules attached to the frame structure are attached between the two center beams.


25. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 8, wherein the mounting rails are hollow.


26. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 8, wherein the mounting rails are affixed to an associated bottom surface of each photovoltaic module.


27. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 26, wherein the mounting rails are affixed to the associated bottom surface by an adhesive.


28. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 27, wherein the adhesive is a bond tape.


29. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 8, wherein end sides of the mounting rails include one or more mounting holes through which a fastener can pass to attach the mounting rail to the frame structure.


30. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 2, further comprising a plurality of structures affixed to the side beams for facilitating sliding installation of the mounting cartridge along a support rail.


31. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 30, wherein the structures comprise a wheel.


32. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 30, wherein the structures are hinged to enable the attachment structure to move. from a storage position which permits cartridge stacking to an installation position which permits sliding movement along the support rail.


33. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 31, wherein the wheel is positioned so as to engage a corresponding groove in the support rail.


34. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 23, wherein the center beam provides a conduit containing an electrical bus..


35. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 34, wherein the center beam comprises an access hole to allow conductors of a photovoltaic module mounted on the mounting cartridge to connect to the electrical bus.


36. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 34, further comprising a connector block, wherein the connector block enables photovoltaic module wiring from a photovoltaic module mounted on a first side of the center beam to access a central wiring harness of the photovoltaic module mounting cartridge.


37. The photovoltaic module mounting cartridge of claim 36, wherein the connector block is configured to enable the photovoltaic module wiring from a second photovoltaic module mounted on a second side of the center beam to access the central wiring harness of the photovoltaic module mounting cartridge.


38. An apparatus comprising:
a photovoltaic module;
at least one mounting rail affixed to an underside of the photovoltaic module,

wherein the mounting rail is configured to mount the photovoltaic module to a mounting cartridge configured to mount a plurality of photovoltaic modules.


39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the mounting rail extends along a longitudinal extent of the photovoltaic module.


40. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the mounting rail comprises a back side, a first and second longitudinal side, a first and second upstanding end, and an open side.


41. The photovoltaic module of claim 38, wherein the mounting rail comprises a plurality of mounting holes on an end surface configured to receive a fastener.


42. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the mounting rail comprises a plurality of mounting posts configured to be inserted into mounting holes on the mounting cartridge.


43. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the mounting rails are affixed to the photovoltaic module by an adhesive.


44. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the first longitudinal side is affixed to an underside of the photovoltaic module.


45. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a plurality of fasteners configured to be inserted through the upstanding ends and into the mounting cartridge.


46. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the first upstanding end is formed from a tab extending from the back side folded at a first angle relative to the back side.


47. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the first upstanding end is formed from a first tab extending from the back side folded at a first angle relative to the back side, a second tab extending from the first longitudinal side, and a third tab extending from the second longitudinal side.


48. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the first tab is folded over the second and third tabs.


49. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the second and third tabs are folded over the first tab.


50. The apparatus of claim 40, comprising a first and second mounting rail extending along a longitudinal extent of the photovoltaic module, wherein the first mounting rail is parallel to the second mounting rail.


51. A method of assembling a photovoltaic module mounting cartridge, comprising:
providing a frame structure;
providing a plurality of photovoltaic modules, each having at least one mounting rail affixed to a bottom surface thereof;
arranging the photovoltaic modules atop the frame structure in an array of rows and columns; and
attaching each associated mounting rail to the frame structure to secure the corresponding photovoltaic module on the frame structure.



52. The method of claim 51, wherein providing the frame structure comprises:
providing a top beam;
providing first and second side beams;
providing a bottom beam; and
providing at least one center beam between the top and bottom beams.



53. The method of claim 52, wherein providing the frame structure further comprises joining each of the top and bottom beams to each of the first and second side beams.


54. The method of claim 53, wherein joining each of the top and bottom beams to each of the first and second side beams comprises attaching each end of each beam to a corresponding corner joining element.


55. The method of claim 54, wherein attaching each associated mounting rail to the frame structure comprises attaching the associated mounting rail between one of the first and second side beams and the center beam.


56. The method of claim 55, further comprising supporting a first end of the mounting rail on a first mounting ridge provided on said one of the first and second side beams and supporting a second end of the mounting rail on a second mounting ridge provided on the center beam.


57. The method of claim 55, wherein the attaching the associated mounting rail between one of the first and second side beams and the center beam comprises aligning mounting holes on each end surface of the associated mounting rail with mounting holes on one of the first and second side beams and the center beam, and placing a fastening element therethrough.


58. The method of claim 52, wherein providing the center beam between the top and bottom beams comprises attaching end flanges of the center beam to each of the top and bottom beams.


59. The method of claim 51, further comprising affixing a surface of the at least one associated one mounting rail to the bottom surface of each photovoltaic module.


60. The method of claim 59, wherein the affixing comprises applying an adhesive to one or both of the top surface of the mounting rail and the bottom surface of the photovoltaic module, and pressing the mounting rail and photovoltaic module together.


61. The method of claim 52, further comprising providing a plurality of structures affixed to the side beams for facilitating sliding installation of the mounting cartridge along a support rail.


62. The method of claim 61, further comprising sliding the mounting cartridge along the support rail to an installation location.

