
A system and method for reducing the amount of power processed in a power converter during power generation is provided. In one aspect, the system includes a partial power converter connected between a set of power sources and a load. The partial power converter includes a primary power converter coupled to a first power source and a set of auxiliary power converters coupled to the remaining power sources. Moreover, the secondary power converters only process current that is necessary to achieve a maximum power point (MPP) for each power source. In one example, the secondary power converters are smaller in size and/or power rating, as compared to the primary power converter, and thus reduce the size and cost of the system. Additionally, the secondary power converters operate on an “as-needed” basis rather than in “always-on” fashion, and thus are more reliable and efficient.



1. A power generation system, comprising:
an array of power sources that output electrical power; and
a partial power converter that connects the array to a load and regulates the electric power,
wherein the partial power converter includes a primary power converter module that processes the power generated by a first power source in the array, and a secondary power converter module that processes a power mismatch between the power sources in the array.



2. The power generation system of claim 1, wherein the primary power converter module includes at least one direct current (DC-DC) power converter coupled to the first power source.


3. The power generation system of claim 1, wherein the secondary power converter module includes one or more secondary power converters coupled to a remaining of the power sources in the array.


4. The power generation system of claim 3, wherein the one or more secondary power converters include at least a DC-DC power micro-converter.


5. The power generation system of claim 4, wherein the at least DC-DC power micro-converter has at least one of a rating or a size smaller than at least one of a rating or a size of the DC-DC power converter.


6. The power generation system of claim 1, further comprising: a high current path that provides the electric power to the load by bypassing the secondary power converter module, if the first power source is generating power above a predetermined level.


7. The power generation system of claim 1, further comprising: a low current path that provides power generated by the secondary power converter module to the load to provide power to the load above a predetermined level.


8. The power generation system of claim 1, wherein the power sources include photovoltaic (PV) modules.


9. The power generation system of claim 1, wherein the load is a DC-alternating current (AC) inverter.


10. A method for regulating power, comprising:
detecting power generated by a first power source and a second power source of an array of power sources;
using the power generated to determine a power mismatch between the first and the second power sources;
boosting the power generated by the first power source in response to detecting the mismatch; and
providing the boosted power to a load.



11. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
determining a power mismatch between a third power source and the second power source; and
boosting the power generated by the third power source in response to detecting the mismatch.



12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: detecting the power mismatch due to at least one of manufacturing variations, fluctuations, damage, temperature change, or shading.


13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: controlling an output of the first power source based on a maximum power point tracking for the first power source.


14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: providing power generated by the remaining of the power sources of the array directly to the load, in response to the power mismatch not being present between the second power source and the respective remaining power sources.


15. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the power mismatch includes processing the power generated by the power sources by employing a set of direct current (DC)-DC micro converters.


16. An integrated circuit, comprising:
a primary module that couples a first power generating panel, in an array of power generating panels, to a load through a primary power converter;
a secondary module that couples a remaining of the power generating panels in the array, to the load through a set of secondary power converters, and boosts power generated by at least one of the remaining of the power generating panels, in response to detection of a power mismatch in the array.



17. The integrated circuit of claim 16, further comprising: the primary power converter is configured to track a maximum power point (MPP) for the first power generating panel.


18. The integrated circuit of claim 16, wherein secondary module detects the power mismatch in the array.


19. The integrated circuit of claim 16, wherein the set of secondary power converters include at least one direct current (DC-DC) micro converter.


20. The integrated circuit of claim 16, wherein at least one of size or power rating of one of the set of secondary power converters is customized based on an expected operating condition of a respective power generating panel in the array. 

