
A method and apparatus for controlling power conversion. In one embodiment, the method comprises computing a voltage ratio based on a voltage conversion in a resonant converter; comparing the voltage ratio to a threshold; and controlling, independent of switching frequency of the resonant converter, power output from the resonant converter based on whether the voltage ratio satisfies the threshold.



1. A method for controlling power conversion, comprising:
computing a voltage ratio based on a voltage conversion in a resonant converter;
comparing the voltage ratio to a threshold; and
controlling, independent of switching frequency of the resonant converter, power output from the resonant converter based on whether the voltage ratio satisfies the threshold.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein the voltage ratio is a ratio of an input voltage of the resonant converter to an output voltage of the resonant converter.


3. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling the power output comprises operating a bridge of the resonant converter as a full H-bridge or a half H-bridge.


4. The method of claim 3, wherein the bridge is operated as the half H-bridge when the voltage ratio exceeds the threshold.


5. The method of claim 3, further comprising controlling, when switching the bridge between the full H-bridge and the half-H bridge, a charge of a component of a resonant circuit of the resonant converter.


6. The method of claim 5, wherein the charge is controlled by modulating a duty cycle of the bridge.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold is (5/3)*(N1/N2), wherein N1 is a number of turns of a primary winding of a transformer of the resonant converter and N2 is a number of turns of a secondary winding of the transformer.


8. Apparatus for controlling power conversion, comprising:
a bridge controller for (i) computing a voltage ratio based on a voltage conversion in a resonant converter; (ii) comparing the voltage ratio to a threshold; and (iii) controlling, independent of switching frequency of the resonant converter, power output from the resonant converter based on whether the voltage ratio satisfies the threshold.



9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the voltage ratio is a ratio of an input voltage of the resonant converter to an output voltage of the resonant converter.


10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein controlling the power output comprises operating a bridge of the resonant converter as a full H-bridge or a half H-bridge.


11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the bridge is operated as the half H-bridge when the voltage ratio exceeds the threshold.


12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the bridge controller controls, when switching the bridge between the full H-bridge and the half-H bridge, a charge of a component of a resonant circuit of the resonant converter.


13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the charge is controlled by modulating a duty cycle of the bridge.


14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the threshold is (5/3)*(N1/N2), wherein N1 is a number of turns of a primary winding of a transformer of the resonant converter and N2 is a number of turns of a secondary winding of the transformer.


15. Apparatus for power conversion, comprising:
a resonant converter for converting an input voltage to an output voltage, wherein the resonant converter comprises (1) an H-bridge for generating a square wave voltage from the input voltage, wherein the output voltage is based on the square wave voltage; and (2) a bridge controller for (i) computing a voltage ratio of the input voltage to the output voltage; (ii) comparing the voltage ratio to a threshold; and (iii) controlling, independent of switching frequency of the resonant converter, power output from the resonant converter based on whether the voltage ratio satisfies the threshold.



16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein controlling the power output comprises operating the H-bridge as a full H-bridge or as a half H-bridge.


17. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a resonant circuit coupled to the H-bridge, wherein the bridge controller controls a charge on a capacitor of the resonant circuit when switching the bridge between the full H-bridge and the half-H bridge.


18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the charge is controlled by modulating a duty cycle of the bridge.


19. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a photovoltaic (PV) module, coupled to the resonant converter, for providing the input voltage.


20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a DC-AC inverter, coupled to the resonant converter, for inverting the output voltage to an AC output.

