
A cam-actuated connection device joins rail mounting members of a photovoltaic panel array. The connection device slides within channels of mounting members until the members are in a properly positioned grid. When in position, the connection device is rotated to lock the mounting members in a rigid grid network. The connecting device can be subsequently loosened, repositioned and locked into position. The rail-mounting members create a grid for installation of multiple PV panels. The mounting rail allows the unit to remain relatively compact in nature but still covers a wide range of PV panel thicknesses. The rail system has a hinged connection with the mounting rail that allows an installer to assemble the module in a near perpendicular fashion to the mounting rail, make the required electrical connections and then lower the PV module into its working position. The unit is then locked into its working position.



1-15. (canceled)


16. An adjustable panel-clamping apparatus, comprising:
(a) a base having a first channel defined by a floor and opposing sidewalls, the base having at least one ledge extending therefrom;
(b) a clamping member disposed in the first channel and movably mounted to the base, the clamping member having a second channel defined by a floor and opposing first and second sidewalls, at least one of the sidewalls of the clamping member having at least two spaced slots;
(c) a cap with a leg inserted in the second channel, the leg having at least one rib inserted into one of said at least two slots of the clamping member, the cap also having at least one leg extending therefrom, said at least one leg spaced from said at least one ledge to form a gap therebetween that is configured to receive a panel edge for clamping the panel edge; and
(d) means for applying opposing longitudinal forces to the clamping member and the base to displace the clamping member relative to the base and thereby alter the gap's size.



17. The adjustable panel-clamping apparatus in accordance with claim 16, wherein the clamping member is movably mounted to the base by at least two links pivotably mounted in the first channel to the base floor at spaced positions and pivotably mounted to the clamping member at spaced locations.


18. The adjustable panel-clamping apparatus in accordance with claim 17, 1 wherein said at least one rib comprises ribs on opposing sides of the cap leg, and said at least two slots comprises at least a first pair of opposing slots formed on the clamping member sidewalls and a second pair of opposing slots formed on the clamping member sidewalls spaced from, and substantially parallel to, the first pair of opposing slots.


19. An apparatus for attaching an encasement frame mounted to a planar panel to a stable structure, the apparatus comprising: (a) a first attachment lip extending from a first side of the encasement frame; (b) a second attachment lip extending from an opposing, second side of the encasement frame;
(c) a first rail having first and second slots, at least one of which complementarily receives the first attachment lip, the first rail mounted to the stable structure;
(d) a second rail having third and fourth slots, at least one of which complementarily receives the second attachment lip, the second rail mounted to the stable structure spaced from the first rail;
(e) a first cap mounted to the first rail over the first and second slots; and
(f) a second cap mounted to the second rail over the third and fourth slots.



20. The apparatus in accordance with claim 19, wherein the first and second attachment lips are integral with the encasement frame.


21. The apparatus in accordance with claim 19, wherein the first and second 1 attachment lips are removably mounted to the encasement frame.


22. A combination of a connector mounting an adjustable panel-clamping apparatus at a spaced distance from a second component, the combination comprising:
(a) an elongated pin having a first head and a second head spaced from the first head, the first head being wider than at least an adjacent cooperating portion of the pin and the second head being wider than at least an adjacent cooperating portion of the pin; and
(b) a first body interposed between the first and second heads having a first surface spaced from the first head to define a first gap therebetween into which the adjustable panel clamping apparatus is interposed, the first body having a second surface spaced from the second head to define a second gap therebetween into which the second component is interposed, the adjustable panel-clamping apparatus comprising:
(i) a base having a first channel defined by a floor and opposing sidewalls, the base having at least one ledge extending therefrom;
(ii) a clamping member disposed in the first channel and movably mounted to the base, the clamping member having a second channel defined by a floor and opposing first and second sidewalls, at least one of the sidewalls of the clamping member having at least two spaced slots;
(iii) a cap with a leg inserted in the second channel, the leg having at least one rib inserted into one of said at least two slots of the clamping member, the cap also having at least one leg extending therefrom, said at least one leg spaced from said at least one ledge to form a gap therebetween that is configured to receive a panel edge for clamping the panel edge; and
(iv) means for applying opposing longitudinal forces to the clamping member and the base to displace the clamping member relative to the base and thereby alter the gap's size.




23-24. (canceled)

