
A solar panel cap and light cap can be secured to a wall or parapet through the use of a common bracket. The bracket includes two vertical extensions on either side of a locking channel. The locking channel is configured to permanently receive a matching end, such that the matching end cannot come out of the locking channel once installed. Both the solar panel cap and light cap include the matching end. The solar panel caps and light caps are configured to connect to an adjacent cap such that they are electrically coupled. Either the solar panel caps or light caps can include a rechargeable battery such that energy stored during daylight hours can be used during the night.



1. An adjustable solar panel cap for attachment to a parapet or wall, comprising:
a mounting bracket attachable to an upper end of the parapet or wall; and
a solar panel fixed to the mounting bracket.



2. The solar panel cap of claim 1, wherein the solar panel is adjustably positionable relative to the mounting bracket.


3. The solar panel cap of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket includes a locking channel for slidably receiving and retaining at least a portion of the solar panel therein.


4. The solar panel cap of claim 1, wherein the solar panel comprises a plurality of solar panels.


5. The solar panel cap of claim 4, wherein adjacent solar panels are electrically connected together.


6. The solar panel cap of claim 1, including one or more electrically powered devices electrically connected to the solar panel.


7. The solar panel cap of claim 6, wherein the electrically powered devices comprise a streetlight, a building light, a battery or an outdoor electrical device.


8. The solar panel cap of claim 7, wherein the electrically powered devices comprise at least one light cap attachable to the upper end of the parapet or wall.


9. The solar panel cap of claim 2, wherein the mounting bracket includes a fixed mount and a slidable mount.


10. The solar panel cap of claim 9, wherein the mounting bracket includes a horizontal support positionable over the upper end of the parapet or wall.


11. The solar panel cap of claim 9, including pivot hinges for connecting the solar panel to the mounting bracket.


12. An adjustable solar panel cap for attachment to a parapet or wall, comprising:
a mounting bracket attachable to an upper end of the parapet or wall, the mounting bracket including a fixed mount and a slidable mount;
a solar panel fixed to the mounting bracket; and
one or more electrically powered devices electrically connected to the solar panel.



13. The solar panel cap of claim 12, wherein the mounting bracket includes a horizontal support positionable over the upper end of the parapet or wall.


14. The solar panel cap of claim 12, including pivot hinges for connecting the solar panel to the mounting bracket.


15. The solar panel cap of claim 11, wherein the mounting bracket includes a locking channel for slidably receiving and retaining at least a portion of the solar panel therein.


16. The solar panel cap of claim 15, wherein the solar panel comprises a plurality of solar panels, and wherein adjacent solar panels are electrically connected together.


17. The solar panel cap of claim 12, wherein the electrically powered devices comprise a streetlight, a building light, a battery or an outdoor electrical device, wherein the electrically powered devices comprise at least one light cap attachable to the upper end of the parapet or wall.


18. An adjustable solar panel cap for attachment to a parapet or wall, comprising:
a mounting bracket attachable to an upper end of the parapet or wall; and
a solar panel fixed to the mounting bracket, wherein the mounting bracket includes a locking channel for slidably receiving and retaining at least a portion of the solar panel therein; and
wherein the solar panel is adjustably positionable relative to the mounting bracket.



19. The solar panel cap of claim 18, wherein the mounting bracket includes a fixed mount, a slidable mount, and a horizontal support positionable over the upper end of the parapet or wall, and pivot hinges for connecting the solar panel to the mounting bracket.


20. The solar panel cap of claim 18, wherein the solar panel comprises a plurality of solar panels electrically connected together, and one or more electrically powered devices are electrically connected to the solar panel, the electrically powered devices comprising a streetlight, a building light, a battery, and outdoor electrical device, or at least one cap attachable to the upper end of the parapet or wall. 

