
Switched capacitor multilevel output DC-DC converters can be used as panel integrated modules in a solar maximum power point tracking system. The system can also include a central input current-controlled ripple port inverter. The system can implement per panel MPPT without inter-panel communication, electrolytic capacitors or per panel magnetics. A Marx converter implementation of the switched capacitor module is studied. Average total efficiencies (tracking×conversion) greater than 93% can be achieved for a simulated 510 W, 3 panel, DC-DC system.



1. A circuit for obtaining power from a photovoltaic unit, the circuit comprising:
a DC-DC power converter configured to convert a first signal from the photovoltaic unit into a second signal using a conversion ratio selected from a set of discrete conversion ratios that the DC-DC power converter is capable of providing.



2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the DC-DC power converter comprises a multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter.


3. The circuit of claim 2, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter comprises a Marx converter.


4. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the DC-DC power converter does not include a magnetic component.


5. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the set of discrete conversion ratios that the DC-DC power converter is capable of providing includes no more than five conversion ratios.


6. The circuit of claim 1, further comprising:
a controller configured to control the DC-DC power converter using a maximum power point tracking algorithm.



7. The circuit of claim 6, whereby the maximum power point tracking algorithm causes the DC-DC power converter to avoid undervoltage conditions.


8. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the DC-DC power converter is configured to enter a bypass mode in which the output of the DC-DC power converter is connected to panel ground when the conversion ratio is zero.


9. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the DC-DC power converter is configured to enter a safety disconnect mode in which the input of the DC-DC power converter is disconnected from the output of the DC-DC power converter by one or more transistors of the DC-DC power converter, wherein the one or more transistors of the DC-DC power converter are configured to switch to provide different conversion ratios.


10. A circuit, comprising:
a multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter configured to receive a first signal from a photovoltaic unit and to convert the first signal into a second signal; and
a controller configured to control the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter using a maximum power point tracking algorithm.



11. The circuit of claim 10, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter comprises a Marx converter.


12. The circuit of claim 10, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter does not include a magnetic component.


13. The circuit of claim 10, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter is capable of providing no more than five conversion ratios.


14. A circuit for controlling a photovoltaic system, the circuit comprising:
a plurality of series-connected module integrated converters, each module integrated converter comprising:
a multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter coupled to a photovoltaic module; and
a first controller configured to control the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter using a maximum power point tracking algorithm; and

an inverter coupled to the plurality of series-connected module integrated converters, the inverter comprising a second controller to control a current through the plurality of series-connected module integrated converters.



15. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter is configured to convert a first signal from the photovoltaic module into a second signal using a conversion ratio selected from a set of discrete conversion ratios that the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter is capable of providing.


16. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the set of discrete conversion ratios that the DC-DC power converter is capable of providing includes no more than five conversion ratios.


17. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter comprises a Marx converter.


18. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the inverter comprises a ripple port inverter.


19. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the current through the plurality of series-connected module integrated converters is substantially constant.


20. The circuit of claim 14, wherein the first controller is configured to change an operating point of the photovoltaic module at a first rate and the second controller is configured to change the current at a second rate that is slower than the first rate.


21. A system for controlling a plurality of photovoltaic units, the system comprising:
a first power converter coupled to a first photovoltaic unit;
a first controller to control the first power converter to operate the first photovoltaic unit using a maximum power point tracking algorithm;
a second power converter in series with the first power converter and coupled to a second photovoltaic unit;
a second controller to control the second power converter to operate the second photovoltaic unit using a maximum power point tracking algorithm; and
a third controller that controls a current through the first and second power converters.



22. The system of claim 21, wherein the first power converter comprises a first multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter and the second power converter comprises a second multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter.


23. The system of claim 21, wherein the first power converter does not include a magnetic component.


24. The system of claim 21, wherein the first multi-level output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter comprises a Marx converter.


25. The system of claim 21, wherein the third controller controls an inverter to establish the current.


26. The system of claim 21, wherein the inverter comprises a ripple port inverter.


27. The system of claim 21, wherein the current is a substantially constant current.


28. The system of claim 21, wherein the first controller is configured to change an operating point of the first photovoltaic unit at a first rate and the third controller is configured to change the current at a second rate that is slower than the first rate.


29. The system of claim 21, wherein the first photovoltaic unit is a first photovoltaic module and the second photovoltaic unit is a second photovoltaic module.


30. A gate drive circuit, comprising:
a level shift circuit; and
a charge pump circuit that provides a floating gate drive voltage to a transistor of a multilevel output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter based on a signal from the level shift circuit.



31. The gate drive circuit of claim 30, wherein the charge pump circuit comprises an oscillator circuit and the gate drive circuit further comprises:
a zener diode connected between a power terminal of the timer circuit and a source terminal of the transistor.



32. The gate drive circuit of claim 31, further comprising a resistive element coupled between the power terminal of the timer circuit and a terminal that is configured to be grounded.


33. The gate drive circuit of claim 32, wherein the resistive element has a variable resistance.


34. The gate drive circuit of claim 33, wherein the gate drive circuit is configured to select the variable resistance of the resistive element at least partially based on a conversion ratio of the multilevel output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter.


35. The gate drive circuit of claim 34, wherein the gate drive circuit is configured to select the variable resistance of the resistive element further based on which transistor of the multilevel output DC-DC switched capacitor power converter is driven by the floating gate drive voltage.


36. The gate drive circuit of claim 32, wherein the resistive element comprises a plurality of resistive elements and switches, and wherein the switches are referenced to ground. 

