
A heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter includes a photovoltaic inverter, a thermal module and at least one heat pipe. The thermal module has a heat dissipation backboard formed with at least one groove. The heat pipe is inlaid in the groove. The heat pipe has a plane face and an arcuate face. The plane face of the heat pipe is flush with the heat dissipation backboard and attached to the photovoltaic inverter. The arcuate face of the heat pipe is snugly attached to a wall of the groove. The processing cost and material cost of the heat dissipation structure are lowered and the heat dissipation efficiency of the heat dissipation structure is enhanced.



1. A heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter, comprising:
a photovoltaic inverter;
a thermal module disposed on a first side of the photovoltaic inverter, the thermal module having a heat dissipation backboard, the heat dissipation backboard having a top face and at least one groove; and
at least one heat pipe inlaid in the groove, the heat pipe having a plane face in contact with the photovoltaic inverter.



2. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heat pipe is inlaid in the groove with the plane face of the heat pipe flush with the top face of the heat dissipation backboard.


3. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 1, wherein the top face of the heat dissipation backboard is in contact with the photovoltaic inverter.


4. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heat pipe is a D-shaped heat pipe having a plane top face as said plane face and an arcuate bottom face in adjacency to the plane top face.


5. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 4, wherein the arcuate bottom face of the heat pipe is snugly attached to a wall of the groove.


6. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 1, wherein multiple radiating fins perpendicularly extend from the other side of the heat dissipation backboard opposite to the top face.


7. The heat dissipation structure for photovoltaic inverter as claimed in claim 5, wherein the plane top face of the heat pipe is in direct contact with the photovoltaic inverter to directly absorb heat generated by the photovoltaic inverter, the heat absorbed by the plane top face being conducted from the arcuate bottom face to the heat dissipation backboard. 

