
A power conversion system for use with a photovoltaic (PV) power source may include a DC/DC converter for converting a first DC voltage into a second DC voltage, an isolation transformer, an inverter for converting DC power to AC power, and at least one controller for controlling the DC/DC converter and the inverter. The controller may be configured to operate the DC/DC converter as a buck converter or a boost converter based, at least in part, on whether the first DC voltage is less or greater than a reference voltage. Additionally, the controller may operate the converter according to a maximum power point tracking algorithm. Further, the controller may be configured to operate the inverter to control the DC voltage at the inverter's input as a function of the AC voltage at the inverter's output. Example embodiments of power systems, DC/DC converters, DC/AC inverters and related methods are also disclosed.



1. A power conversion system for use with a photovoltaic (PV) power source, the system comprising:
a DC/DC converter for converting a first DC voltage into a second DC voltage;
an isolation transformer;
an inverter for converting DC power to AC power; and
at least one controller for controlling the DC/DC converter and the inverter, the controller configured to operate the DC/DC converter as a buck converter or a boost converter based, at least in part, on whether the first DC voltage is less or greater than a reference voltage.



2. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to operate the DC/DC converter according to a maximum power point tracking algorithm.


3. The system of claim 2 wherein the inverter is a grid-tie inverter.


4. The system of claim 3 wherein the isolation transformer has a turns ratio of approximately 1:1.


5. The system of claim 4 wherein the inverter includes an input for receiving a DC voltage and an output for providing an AC voltage, and wherein the controller is configured to operate the inverter to control the DC voltage at the inverter's input as a function of the AC voltage at the inverter's output.


6. The system of claim 5 wherein the DC/DC converter includes an output coupled to the inverter's input via the isolation transformer.


7. The system of claim 5 wherein the inverter's output is coupled to an AC utility grid.


8. The system of claim 7 wherein the DC/DC converter includes an input coupled to a PV power source.


9. The system of claim 5 wherein the second DC voltage is the reference voltage at least when the controller is operating the DC/DC converter according to the MPPT algorithm.


10. A power system comprising:
an input for receiving an input voltage from a variable DC input source;
an output for providing an output voltage;
a buck-boost converter; and
at least one controller configured to operate the buck-boost converter as a buck converter or a boost converter based, at least in part, on whether the input voltage is greater or less than a reference voltage, and to operate the converter according to a maximum power point tracking algorithm.



11. The system of claim 10 wherein the converter is operable to convert a first DC voltage to a second DC voltage and wherein the second DC voltage is the reference voltage at least when the controller is operating the DC/DC converter according to the MPPT algorithm.


12. The system of claim 11 further comprising an inverter including an input for receiving a DC voltage and an output for providing an AC voltage.


13. The system of claim 12 further comprising an isolation transformer, the buck-boost converter including an output coupled to the inverter's input via the isolation transformer.


14. The system of claim 13 wherein the isolation transformer has a turns ratio of approximately 1:1.


15. A power system comprising:
an input for receiving an input voltage from a variable DC input source;
an output for providing an output voltage;
an inverter including an input for receiving a DC voltage and an output for providing an AC voltage; and
at least one controller configured to operate the inverter to control the DC voltage at the inverter's input as a function of the AC voltage at the inverter's output.



16. The system of claim 15 wherein the inverter is a grid-tie inverter.


17. The system of claim 16 further comprising DC/DC converter including an input for receiving a first DC voltage and an output for outputting a second DC voltage.


18. The system of claim 17 further comprising an isolation transformer, the DC/DC converter output coupled to the inverter's input via the isolation transformer.


19. The system of claim 18 wherein the controller is configured to operate the inverter to control the DC voltage at the inverter's input as a function of the AC voltage at the inverter's output to maintain the DC voltage at the inverter's input within a defined range above a peak magnitude of the AC voltage at the inverter's output.


20. The system of claim 19 wherein the controller is configured to operate the DC/DC converter as a buck converter or a boost converter based, at least in part, on whether the input voltage is greater or less than a reference voltage. 

