
Provided are photovoltaic module assemblies configured for improved installation. The assemblies include frameless photovoltaic modules and retainers for supporting the modules on mounting structures. The retainers support the modules at least during cure of adhesive materials provided between the modules and the mounting structures. Once cured, the adhesive materials provide permanent support to the modules. The retainers may interlock with the mounting structures during installation or be integral components of the structures. In certain embodiments, retainers are used to control a gap between the modules and mounting structures. Retainers may be removable and collected after installation is completed. Alternatively, retainers may remain as parts of assemblies at least during some initial period. Retainers may be made from various degradable materials, such as biodegradable plastics, UV degradable plastics, and/or water soluble materials. Provided also are methods for installing frameless photovoltaic modules on mounting structures.



1. A photovoltaic assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet;
a mounting structure comprising two rails in contact with the backside sheet;
an adhesive material distributed between the backside sheet and each of the two rails and configured for mechanically attaching the backside sheet and the two rails after the adhesive material is cured; and
a retainer attached to the mounting structure and supporting the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure during curing of the adhesive material.



2. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer is interlocked with one of the rails of the mounting structure.


3. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer exerts a force on the frontside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module.


4. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer comprises one or more biodegradable polymers selected from the group consisting of a starch-based polymer, a cellulose-based polymer, an amylase-based polymer, a polylactic acid, a polyhydroxybutyrate, a polybutylenesuccinate, a polycaprolactone, and a polyglycolide.


5. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer comprises one or more UV-degradable plastics.


6. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer comprises one or more water soluble plastics.


7. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer comprises a flexible edge configured to bend during the installation of the retainer and to exert a force onto the mounting structure after the installation.


8. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer forms a channel configured to snugly fit around the edge of the frameless photovoltaic module.


9. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer is in contact with the adhesive material.


10. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside and/or backside sheet is a glass sheet.


11. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 10, wherein an external surface of the frontside sheet does not contact any metallic components of the mounting structure.


12. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside sheet and/or the backside sheet are flexible.


13. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


14. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a feature configured for engaging with the retainer.


15. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the adhesive material is selected from the group consisting of a silicone-based polymer, polyurethane, and epoxy.


16. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the adhesive material is a fast-setting two-component adhesive.


17. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the adhesive material is a UV-stable adhesive.


18. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the backside sheet is pre-treated to improve its bonding to the adhesive material.


19. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a second frameless photovoltaic module positioned on the mounting structure with the adhesive material distributed between the mounting structure and the second frameless photovoltaic module, wherein the retainer supports the frameless photovoltaic module and the second frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure during curing of the adhesive material.


20. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module is at an angle greater than about 15° relative to horizontal.


21. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the two rails comprise aluminum and/or steel.


22. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the two rails comprise a U-shaped channel.


23. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


24. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the retainer comprises a spacer extending between the backside sheet and the mounting structure and controlling a thickness of the adhesive materials distributed between the backside sheet and each of the two rails.


25. A method of installing a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet onto a mounting structure, the method comprising:
providing the mounting structure comprising two rails;
applying an adhesive material onto the two rails;
positioning the frameless photovoltaic module onto the mounting structure such that the backside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module comes into contact with the adhesive material positioned on each of the two rails; and
installing a retainer onto the mounting structure such that the retainer supports the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure during curing of the adhesive material.



26. The method of claim 25, further comprising curing the adhesive material, wherein the adhesive material is cured within 24 hours.


27. The method of claim 25, further comprising curing the adhesive material, wherein the adhesive material is cured within 8 hours.


28. The method of claim 25, further comprising curing the adhesive material, wherein the adhesive material is cured only after at least 24 hours.


29. The method of claim 25, further comprising removing the retainer after the adhesive material cures.


30. The method of claim 25, wherein the retainer is installed on the mounting structure prior to positing the frameless photovoltaic module onto the mounting structure. 

