
A selective radiation utilization apparatus includes an optical filtering device and a modulation device. The optical filtering device transmits one or more selected spectral bands of incoming solar radiation and reflects one or more remaining bands of the incoming solar radiation. The modulation device spatially modulates one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands and directs the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands towards a target of illumination.



1. A selective radiation utilization apparatus, the apparatus comprising:
an optical filtering device that transmits one or more selected spectral bands of incoming solar radiation and reflects one or more remaining bands of the incoming solar radiation; and
a modulation device that spatially modulates one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands and directs the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands towards a target of illumination.



2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising:
a photovoltaic device positioned to convert the non-spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands into electrical energy; and
an electrical light delivery device coupled to the photovoltaic device that converts the electrical energy into amplitude modulated non-solar radiation in substantially the same one or more bands as the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands of the solar radiation.



3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein the electrical light delivery device further comprises:
an inverter coupled to the photovoltaic device;
one or more light emitting diode drivers coupled to the inverter;
one or more light emitting diodes each coupled to one of the one or more LED drivers; and
a waveform generator coupled to the one or more light emitting diode drivers that generates a timing signal for an on/off state for each of the one or more light emitting diodes.




4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein the electrical light delivery device further comprises:
at least one battery charger coupled to the inverter;
at least one battery coupled to the battery charger; and
an LED power source selector coupled to select between the inverter and the battery for coupling to the one or more LED drivers.



5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein the electrical light delivery device further comprises:
a power conductor; and
a grid power management device that controls flow of electrical energy to and from an electrical power grid, the grid power management coupled to the power conductor, the inverter, and the LED power source selector which selects between the inverter, the battery, and the power conductor for coupling to the one or more LED drivers



6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a solar collector device that converges at least a portion of the incoming solar radiation onto the optical filtering device.


7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands comprises red wavelengths and blue wavelengths and the non-spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands comprises green wavelengths and infrared wavelengths.


8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the optical filtering device further comprises an interference filtering device.


9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the optical filtering device further comprises a substrate with reflective layer on one outer surface and an anti-reflective layer on an opposing outer surface, the reflective layer transmits one or more selected spectral bands of incoming solar radiation and reflects one or more remaining bands of the incoming solar radiation.


10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein the optical filtering device further comprises a solar light redirection device which focuses the one or more selected spectral bands of the solar radiation on the modulation device.


11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein the solar light redirection device further comprises:
a light pipe positioned to capture the one or more selected spectral bands of the solar radiation passing through the substrate; and
a lens positioned to focus the one or more selected spectral bands of the solar radiation exiting the light pipe on the modulation device.



12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the modulation device comprises a scanning mirror positioned to receive one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands.


13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the target of illumination is a photobioreactor.


14. A method for selective radiation utilization, the method comprising:
transmitting one or more selected spectral bands of incoming solar radiation with an optical filtering device;
reflecting one or more remaining bands of the incoming solar radiation with the optical filtering device; and
spatially modulating and directing with a modulation device one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands towards a target of illumination.



15. The method as set forth in claim 14 further comprising:
converting the non-spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands into electrical energy; and
converting the electrical energy into amplitude modulated non-solar radiation in substantially the same one or more bands as the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands of the solar radiation and directing towards the target of illumination.



16. The method as set forth in claim 14 further comprising generating amplitude modulated non-solar radiation in the same one or more bands as the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands of the solar radiation based on power from at least one of a battery or a conductor coupled to a power grid and directing towards the target of illumination.


17. The method as set forth in claim 14 further comprising converging at least a portion of the incoming solar radiation onto the optical filtering device with a solar collector device.


18. The method as set forth in claim 14 wherein the spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands comprises red wavelengths and blue wavelengths and the non-spatially modulated one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands comprises green wavelengths and infrared wavelengths.


19. The method as set forth in claim 14 wherein the target of illumination is a photobioreactor.


20. The method as set forth in claim 14 wherein the spatially modulating and directing further comprises spatially modulating and directing with a scanning mirror the one of the one or more selected spectral bands or the one or more remaining bands towards the target of illumination.

