
An apparatus for mounting solar panels to a rail. The apparatus has a body configured to be attached to a solar panel support structure, and arms on opposite sides of the body configured to engage the rail. The arms hold the apparatus on the rail and allows the support structure to move along the length of the rail. The support structure can be in the form of a carrier which holds one or more solar panels, or may be formed as part of a backside of a solar panel.



1. An apparatus for mounting a solar panel to a rail, the apparatus comprising:
a body configured to be attached to a support structure for the solar panel; and
a pair of arms on opposite sides of the body, configured to engage a rail and hold the apparatus to the rail while permitting movement of the support structure along the rail.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the body has a plurality of securing areas for securing the apparatus to the support structure.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the securing areas comprise holes in the body through which a fastener apparatus be inserted.


4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the arms are configured to surround a head of the rail.


5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the arms have a curvilinear cross section.


6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the arms have a rectilinear cross section.


7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an interior space defined by the arms and body corresponds to a cross-section of a head of the rail.


8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one ball bearing on an underside of the body for engaging with a rail.


9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the rail has a longitudinal groove and the at least one ball bearing is positioned to engage the groove.


10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one roller on an underside of the body.


11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rail has a groove and the at least one roller is positioned to engage the groove.


12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising material on a bottom surface of the body providing a lower coefficient of friction with the rail than between the body and rail directly.


13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the coefficient of friction between the material and a top surface of a head of the rail is less than or equal to 0.15.


14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support structure is a carrier for holding a plurality of solar panels thereon.


15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one wheel mounted within the body on an axle.


16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the axle extends through sides of the body.


17. A solar panel assembly comprising:
a rail; and
a truck configured to engage the rail and a solar panel support structure, the truck comprising:
a body configured to be attached to the solar panel support structure; and
a pair of arms on opposite sides of the body to hold the truck on the rail.




18. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the truck is attached to the solar panel carrier at a plurality of securing areas.


19. The solar panel assembly of claim 18, wherein the securing areas comprise holes in the body of the truck through which a fastener can be inserted.


20. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the rail has a T-shaped cross section.


21. The solar panel assembly of claim 20, wherein a head of the rail comprises a pair of flanges with rounded ends.


22. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the arms are configured to surround a head of the rail.


23. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the arms have a curvilinear cross section.


24. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the arms have a rectilinear cross section.


25. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein an interior space defined by the arms and body corresponds to a cross-section of a head of the rail.


26. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, further comprising a groove in a top surface of a head of the rail.


27. The solar panel assembly of claim 26, further comprising at least one ball bearing on an underside of the body of the truck, positioned to engage the groove.


28. The solar panel assembly of claim 26, further comprising at least one roller on an underside of the body of the truck, positioned to engage the groove.


29. The solar panel assembly of claim 26, wherein the securing areas are aligned with the groove.


30. The solar panel assembly of claim 26, wherein the groove is rounded.


31. The solar panel assembly of claim 26, wherein the groove is rectangular.


32. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, further comprising material on a bottom surface of the body providing a lower coefficient of friction with the rail than between the body and rail directly.


33. The solar panel assembly of claim 32, wherein the coefficient of friction between the material and a top surface of a head of the rail is less than or equal to 0.15.


34. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, further comprising at least wheel on an axle mounted in the body, positioned to engage the groove.


35. The solar panel of claim 34, wherein the axle is attached to the solar panel support structure.


36. The solar panel assembly of claim 17, wherein the solar panel support structure is a solar panel carrier.


37. The solar panel assembly of claim 36, wherein the solar panel carrier has a plurality of solar panels mounted thereon.


38. The solar panel assembly of claim 37, wherein the solar panel carrier has at least one attachment structure for mounting the carrier on the rail, and the truck is mounted within the attachment structure.


39. The solar panel assembly of claim 38, wherein the truck is secured to the attachment structure through a top surface of the attachment structure.

