
The system is an integrated solar energy system which provides solar generated electricity by photovoltaic panels, provides solar generated hot water by solar collector thermal panels and which has a heat recovery ventilation system which can provide heated or cooled air. The system further provides a durable long lasting roof membrane.



1. A solar energy system comprising:
photovoltaic panels for generating electricity in response to sunlight;
thermal collector panels for collecting thermal energy from sunlight; and
a heat recovery system including a channel formed from a gap underneath said photovoltaic panels and said thermal collector panels, further including at least one duct for providing air to or retrieving air from said channel, thereby circulating air underneath said photovoltaic cells and said thermal collector panels.



2. The solar energy system of claim 1 wherein said photovoltaic panels and said thermal collector panels are arranged in an array.


3. The solar energy system of claim 2 wherein at least a portion of said thermal collector panels are placed adjacent to each other in said array and at least a portion of said photovoltaic panels are placed adjacent to each other said array.


4. The solar energy system of claim 3 further including a frame for mounting said thermal collector panels and said photovoltaic panels.


5. The solar energy system of claim 4 wherein said frame comprises purlin elements and rafter elements, wherein said purlin elements are generally perpendicular to said rafter elements.


6. The solar energy system of claim 4 wherein said frame is comprised of aluminum.


7. The solar energy system of claim 6 wherein said thermal collector panels and said photovoltaic panels are secured to said frame by structural silicone.


8. The solar energy system of claim 1 wherein said heat recovery system further comprises an exhaust duct and a supply duct.


9. The solar energy system of claim 8 wherein said exhaust duct is located near a top of said array and said supply duct is located near a bottom of said array, wherein air flows between said supply duct and said exhaust duct by said channel.


10. The solar energy system of claim 8 wherein said heat recovery system further includes a return air duct near a bottom of said array.


11. The solar energy system of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said photovoltaic panels are electrically configured in series with each other.


12. The solar energy system of claim 11 further including an inverter for converting direct current output from said photovoltaic panels into alternating current.


13. The solar energy system of claim 1 wherein said thermal collector panels include a fluid therein for transporting thermal energy.


14. The solar energy system of claim 13 wherein said fluid is anti-freeze fluid.


15. The solar energy system of claim 13 further including pipes between adjacent solar collector panels for circulation of said fluid.


16. The solar energy system of claim 15 wherein said fluid is circulated to a heat exchanger.


17. The solar energy system of claim 16 wherein heat of said fluid is transferred to water in a storage tank.


18. The solar energy system of claim 17 wherein said fluid is free of contact with water in said storage tank.


19. The solar energy system of claim 1 wherein said channel is at least partially lined with rubber.


20. The solar energy system wherein said photovoltaic panels and said thermal collection panels are substantially four feet by four feet in size. 

