
A solar concentrator assembly can include edge solar receiver assemblies that are connected to pivotable frames with locating connections. The locating connections can be in the form of cam devices or tool-less connections formed by snap fitting devices as well as tool-less cam devices.



1. A solar energy concentrator, comprising:
a frame;
at least one edge solar receiver supported by the frame; and
at least one connection device connecting the at least one edge solar receiver to the frame, the connection device comprising at least one tool-less connection connecting the edge solar receiver to the frame when the tool-less connection is in an engaged state.



2. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a torque tube extending along a first longitudinal axis and being supported above the ground for rotational movement about the longitudinal axis of the torque tube.


3. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of transverse ribs extending transverse to a longitudinal axis of the frame.


4. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 3 additionally comprising a plurality of longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors.


5. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 4, wherein each of the longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors extend along a plurality of second longitudinal axes and each of the longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors being supported by the transverse ribs;


6. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 5, wherein the at least one edge solar receiver is spaced apart from each of the plurality of longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors.


7. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 5, wherein the at least one edge solar receiver has a receiving surface and a back surface, and the receiving surface is positioned facing toward one of the plurality of longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors and the frame engages the at least one edge solar receiver along the back surface.


8. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection comprises a snap fitting and comprises biased spring members and apertures aligned such that at least a portion of the spring member extends into the aperture when the snap fitting is in the second connected state.


9. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 8, wherein the spring member is configured to bias the edge solar receiver toward the frame.


10. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 2, wherein the tool-less connection comprises a snap fitting which comprises a first portion of the at least one edge solar receiver comprising a first port and a second portion fixed to the frame comprising a biasing member.


11. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 10, wherein the first portion further comprises a second port and the second portion further comprises a post, and the second port is adapted to constrain movement of the at least one edge solar receiver in a direction parallel to the first longitudinal axis.


12. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 10, wherein the biasing member comprises at least one elastically-deflectable portion which is positioned so as to be deflected by the first portion as the at least one edge receiver is moved to connect the snap fitting.


13. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection is configured such that as the at least one edge receiver is moved toward the frame along a single direction, the tool-less connection is moved from a disengaged state to the engaged state.


14. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 2, wherein the at least one edge receiver comprises a pin extending in a direction parallel to the first longitudinal axis.


15. A solar energy concentrator, comprising:
a frame;
an edge solar receiver supported by the frame; and
connection means for connecting the edge solar receiver to the frame with a tool-less, self-locking fit when the mirror is moved toward the frame.



16. The support structure according to claim 15, wherein the connection means comprises a first component fixed to the edge solar receiver and second component fixed to the frame, and means for locking the first and second components to each other by moving the edge solar receiver toward the frame in a single direction (straight or curved path).


17. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 15 additionally comprising means for defining a pivot path for the edge solar receiver relative to the frame, wherein the connection means comprises means for connecting the edge solar receiver to the frame as the edge solar receiver is moved along the pivot path.


18. (canceled)


19. (canceled)


20. (canceled)


21. (canceled) 

