
A junction box, in particular for solar modules, including a base that is parallel to a mounting surface at the module and an inner cavity formed by a housing and closed by a cover, wherein a solar module contact is connected in the inner cavity with a connecting conductor for putting out generated electricity, wherein the connecting conductor exiting the inner cavity is provided with a plug connector which includes a plug-in device supporting a connecting contact and a safety device maintaining a plug connection, wherein the plug connector is arranged in a support device at the junction box, wherein the support device includes a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug-in device, and wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism through its plug-in device.



1. A junction box for a solar module comprising:
a base parallel to a mounting surface; and
an inner cavity formed by a housing and closed by a cover,
wherein a solar module contact is connected in the inner cavity with a connecting conductor that outputs generated electricity,
wherein the connecting conductor exiting the inner cavity is provided with a plug connector which includes a plug-in device supporting a connecting contact and a safety device maintaining a plug connection,
wherein the plug connector is arranged in a support device at a junction box,
wherein the support device includes a plug-in mechanism that is complementary to the plug-in device, and
wherein the plug connector is arranged at the plug-in mechanism through its plug-in device.



2. The junction box according to claim 1,
wherein the support device includes a safety element that is complementary to the safety device of the plug connector, and
wherein the safety element couples the plug connector through its safety device with the support device.



3. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the plug-in device is configured with a shaft shape and received by a dead hole shaped plug-in mechanism maintaining a fit clearance.


4. The junction box according to claim 3, wherein the safety device is configured as a shaft parallel snap-locking engagement hook which engages an engagement recess at the support device.


5. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein the plug in device is configured as a bore hole in which a shaft shaped plug-in mechanism engages maintaining a fit clearance.


6. The junction box according to claim 5, wherein the safety device is configured as an engagement recess which is engaged by a snap locking tab shaped safety element at the support device.


7. The junction box according to claim 6, wherein the snap locking tab shaped safety element engages the engagement recess at the plug connector from an outside.


8. The junction box according to claim 2, wherein the coupling of the junction box and the plug connector provided by the safety device at the plug connector and the safety element at the support device is disengageable without tools.


9. The junction box according to claim 8, wherein the safety element is configured so that the plug connector disengages from the support device without damaging the safety devices when a defined pull force is exceeded.


10. The junction box according to claim 3, wherein the coupling of the junction box and the plug connector provided by the safety device at the plug connector and the safety element at the support device is disengageable without tools.


11. The junction box according to claim 10, wherein the safety element is configured so that the plug connector disengages from the support device without damaging the safety devices when a defined pull force is exceeded.


12. The junction box according to claim 6, wherein the coupling of the junction box and the plug connector provided by the safety device at the plug connector and the safety element at the support device is disengageable without tools.


13. The junction box according to claim 12, wherein the safety element is configured so that the plug connector disengages from the support device without damaging the safety devices when a defined pull force is exceeded.

