
A system and method for monitoring photovoltaic power generation systems or arrays, both on a local (site) level and from a central location. The system includes panel and string combiner sentries or intelligent devices, in bidirectional communication with a master device on the site to facilitate installation and troubleshooting of faults in the array, including performance monitoring and diagnostic data collection.



1. A method for monitoring the performance of a plurality of photovoltaic panels in an array, comprising:
requesting datasets from a plurality of string sentries associated with the array, wherein the request includes status information for every string sentry and every panel sentry associated with the array; and
collecting, using a bidirectional communication channel, and storing datasets from a master string sentry.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising collecting additional array related data from at least one non-photovoltaic device.


3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one non-photovoltaic device is selected from the group consisting of: an array electric meter, a grid electric meter, ambient temperature sensor; panel temperature sensor; and an array insolation meter.


4. The method of claim 1, further comprising analyzing the datasets to identify system faults and storing results of the analysis, wherein the results are subsequently used to determine the status information that is updated and sent with the request on a subsequent cycle.


5. The method of claim 4, wherein the faults include wire breaks, underperforming panels; and non-functioning panels.


6. The method of claim 4, further comprising repeating the previous steps periodically in accordance with a pre-defined time interval.


7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of requesting datasets includes sending status information that will be used to set status indicators for each of devices from which data is collected.


8. The method of claim A1, wherein the step of requesting datasets includes sending parametric information that is used in the control of a Panel Manager.


9. The method of claim 6, further comprising collecting contemporaneous data averaged over an averaging period from each functioning panel sentry and each functioning string sentry in the array.


10. A method for addressing a plurality of monitoring devices, each monitoring device associated with a photovoltaic panel in an array of panels, comprising:
initiating a request for information from a string of panels in the array;
a string sentry selects a string address and initiates bi-directional communication with the string by sending a query; and
the query is received and a response is generated for transmission by a panel sentry, wherein the panel sentry transmits its string and panel information to at least one adjacent panel in the string.



11. The method of claim 10, wherein the panel sentry transmission is accomplished via a transceiver in electrical connection with at least one other panel sentry.


12. The method of claim 11, wherein the panel sentry transmission is performed via at least one panel location transceiver associated with the current panel, where the transceiver receives from a previous panel the number of panels in the string and the location of the previous panel in the string, wherein the transceiver then transmits to a next panel the number of panels in the string and the physical location of the current panel within the string.


13. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the query and generating a response includes reducing a delay count included with the query and transmitting the query to a next panel in the string.


14. A method for the configuration and installation of a photovoltaic panel array, comprising:
establishing as a minimal site computer configuration, a number of panels per string;
placing at least one string sentry and a site computer in an installation mode; and
repeatedly polling the at least one string sentry to request data relating to the string sentry and any photovoltaic panels connected thereto.



15. The method of claim 14, further comprising receiving, at a panel sentry associated with a photovoltaic panel, address information and then transmitting address information related to that panel to at least an adjacent panel, and also responding to the string sentry via a bidirectional communication channel.


16. The method of claim 14, further comprising receiving, at a panel sentry associated with a photovoltaic panel, a request and in response to the request transmitting a modified request to at least an adjacent panel, receiving a response from the adjacent panel, and generating a modified response to the string sentry via the bidirectional communications channel.


17. The method of claim 14, further comprising the panel sentry determining the location identified by communication with a previous adjacent device on the string and further communicating the location information to a next adjacent device on the string.


18. A monitoring and diagnostic system for a photovoltaic panel array, comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic panels, each panel interconnected with at least one other panel via a power connection and a communication connection, each panel including a panel sentry having a controller for sending and receiving communications with a string sentry;
each of said panel sentries being assigned an address according to its wired location in the array, wherein said string sentry, in conjunction with the panel sentry for each panel, operates to make and record redundant panel voltage measurements and to locate a connection failure in the array.



19. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 18, wherein the system operates to request datasets from the string sentry associated with the array, including status information for every panel sentry associated with the array; and
collecting the datasets using a bidirectional communication channel, and storing the datasets.



20. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 18, where the panel sentry is included within a panel manager, and wherein after the string is connected to a smart string combiner, each panel manager will acquire a wireless address via one way wired serial communication.


21. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 20, wherein the address is retained unless superseded by connecting the panel in a different location in the array.


22. The monitoring system and diagnostic according to claim 20, wherein the panel manager includes at least one electronic switching device.


23. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 22, wherein the at least one electronic switching device is connected to provide a disconnect.


24. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 22, wherein the panel manager further includes a DC to DC converter.


25. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 24, wherein said panel manager implements maximum power point tracking for the panel.


26. The monitoring and diagnostic system according to claim 25, wherein said converter is selected from the group consisting of: a buck converter, a boost converter, or buck-boost converter.

