
The invention relates to a method and a device for recognizing faults in a photovoltaic system (1). A first output voltage (U0, UMPP) of the system (1) and/or a first parameter derived from the output voltage (U0, UMPP) is determined at a first point in time in a first operating state of the photovoltaic system (1). At a second point in time in a second operating state comparable to the first operating state, a second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a second parameter of the system (1) derived from the output voltage (U0, UMPP) is determined. Finally, a deviation between the first and the second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or between the first and the second parameter is identified and a fault notification is output if the deviation exceeds a predeterminable threshold.



1. A method for recognizing faults in a photovoltaic-system (1), comprising the steps:
determining a first output voltage (U0, UMPP) of the system (1) and/or a first parameter derived from said output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a first time point in a first operating state of the photovoltaic-system (1) for determining a starting condition during an initialization process,
determining a second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a second parameter of the system (1) derived from said output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a second time point, when a weather analysis for establishing a sun radiation above a threshold leads to a positive result and there is a second operating state comparable with the first operating state,
determining a deviation between the first and second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or between the first and second parameter and
outputting an error message when the deviation exceeds a predeterminable threshold.



2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage is the maximum power point voltage (UMPP) and/or the open circuit voltage (U0) of the photovoltaic-system (1).


3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the parameter is the ratio between the maximum power point voltage (UMPP) and the open circuit voltage (U0) of the photovoltaic-system.


4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined at a radiation greater than 100 W/m2.


5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined at a power output of the photovoltaic system (1) or an inverter connected thereto at over 15% of the respective nominal power.


6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined at essentially the same radiation or the same power output.


7. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the radiation is determined by means of a light-sensitive sensor.


8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined at essentially the same temperature.


9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein to determine the operating status of the photovoltaic system data is used from a weather station and/or meteorological data from a database.


10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined on different days at essentially the same time.


11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined on different days essentially at the same position of the sun.


12. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a derived parameter are determined at essentially the same output power of the photovoltaic system (1).


13. A device for recognizing faults in a photovoltaic system (1), comprising:
means for determining a first output voltage (U0, UMPP) of the system (1) and/or a first parameter derived from this output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a first time point in a first operating state of the photovoltaic system (1),
means for determining a second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a second parameter of the system (1) derived from this output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a second time point in a second operating state comparable with the first operating state,
means for determining a deviation between the first and second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or between the first and second parameter and
means for issuing an error message when the deviation exceeds a predetermineble threshold.



14. An inverter (5) for a photovoltaic system (1) with DC voltage side and AC voltage side connections, wherein the latter comprises a device as claimed in claim 13 which is connected to the DC voltage side connections.


15. A charging controller for a photovoltaic system (1), wherein the latter comprises a device according to claim 13, which is connected to input-side connections of the charging controller.


16. A photovoltaic system (1) comprising one or more solar cells (31 . . . 3x) and/or one or more solar modules (211 . . . 2mn), wherein the latter comprises an inverter with DC voltage side connections connected to a device according to claim 13 and AC voltage side connections and/or a charging controller having input-side connections connected to said device.


17. A computer program product with a computer program saved thereon, which can be loaded into the memory (8) of a device according to claim 13 and/or an inverter (5) with DC voltage side connections connected to said device and AC voltage side connections and/or a charging controller having input-side connections connected to said device and/or a computer (13), and executes a method for recognizing faults in a photovoltaic system when the computer program is implemented there, said method comprising the steps:
determining a first output voltage (U0, UMPP) of the system (1) and/or a first parameter derived from said output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a first time point in a first operating state of the photovoltaic-system (1) for determining a starting condition during an initialization process,
determining a second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or a second parameter of the system (1) derived from said output voltage (U0, UMPP) at a second time point, when a weather analysis for establishing a sun radiation above a threshold leads to a positive result and there is a second operating state comparable with the first operating state,
determining a deviation between the first and second output voltage (U0, UMPP) and/or between the first and second parameter and
outputting an error message when the deviation exceeds a predeterminable threshold.



18. A method for recognizing module damage in a photovoltaic system (1), wherein an initialization process is performed for determining a starting condition of the system (1) after installation, and wherein for determining measurement values for recognizing module damage with determined measurement values a weather analysis for detecting a solar radiation which is above a threshold is conducted, wherein with a positive weather analysis additional measurement values are recorded and compared with the starting condition.


19. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein with a negative weather analysis a new weather analysis is carried out at least at a later time point.


20. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein to identify module damage a continuous assessment of the Udc voltage is performed, wherein from a change in the ratio of Mpp voltage to the open circuit voltage of the module a creeping and/or sudden instance of module damage is identified.


21. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the initializing process is started at predetermined time points, in particular at midday, or at a defined, set time point, or a manually activated measuring process is started for determining and recording the operating status of the system.


22. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein one or more of the following instances of module damage is identified and reported via a display element: high-impedance soldering points inside the modules, open soldering point on a cell, hotspots, shadowing, dirt, cell breakage, high-impedance soldering point in the connection box etc.


23. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein at a predetermined time point, in particular at midday, a weather analysis is carried out, in which the supplied amount of energy or the inverter power is identified and compared with a predeterminable value, wherein preferably the latter corresponds to a predeterminable percentage, for example 50% of the maximum, to achieve a positive weather analysis.


24. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein an evaluation for recognizing module damage is performed by means of a control device arranged in the inverter or an externally connected control device.

