
Wall panel systems are provided. The systems use interlocking brackets to attach photovoltaic (PV), ceramic, or other rigid wall panels to an exterior wall of a building. The interlocking components include a plurality of wall mounting brackets configured to carry the dead loads of the respective wall panels, and a plurality of panel brackets that may be quickly hung from the wall mounting brackets. The wall mounting brackets are configured to be operatively fastened to an exterior wall surface, while each of the panel brackets is adhesively attached to the rear surface of a respective panel. Each of the wall mounting brackets and the nested panel brackets is substantially similar in dimension and configuration. Further, the system is configured to allow wall panels to be attached to the bracket assemblies in any sequence. A method for attaching architectural wall panels is also provided herein.



1. A system for attaching architectural wall panels to an exterior building wall, each wall panel having a dead load, and the system comprising:
a plurality of rigid wall panels;
a plurality of wall mounting brackets configured to carry the dead loads of the respective wall panels, each wall mounting bracket having:
an exterior surface configured to reside adjacent to the building wall,
a central fastening surface along the exterior surface,
an upper channel above the central fastening surface extending opposite the exterior surface, and
a lower channel below the central fastening surface and also extending opposite the exterior surface;

a plurality of panel brackets, each panel bracket comprising:
an exterior surface configured to reside along a rear surface of a respective wall panel,
an adhesive along the exterior surface for connecting the panel bracket to a respective panel,
an upper channel extending opposite the exterior surface of the panel bracket and configured to nest on and within the upper channel of a respective wall mounting bracket, and
a lower channel also extending opposite the exterior surface of the panel bracket, and configured to nest on and over the lower channel of the respective wall mounting bracket;

wherein the system is configured to allow wall panels to be placed along the exterior building wall m any sequence.



2. The attachment system of claim 1, wherein each of the wall mounting brackets and the nested panel brackets is substantially similar in dimension and configuration.


3. The attachment system of claim 1, wherein each panel comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells for converting solar energy to electrical energy, and an electrical cable for delivering electrical current from the plurality of photovoltaic cells.


4. The attachment system of claim 1, wherein each panel is fabricated from a ceramic material.


5. The attachment system of claim 4, wherein:
each panel further comprises a substantially planar rear surface; and
each panel is fabricated from a porcelain material to form a porcelain ceramic tile.



6. The attachment system of claim 5, further comprising:
a plurality of bracket assemblies fastened to the exterior wall; and
wherein:
the central fastening surface of each wall mounting bracket is connected to a bracket assembly by means of a mechanical fastener, and
the system is configured to allow wall panels to be secured to the bracket assemblies in any sequence.




7. The attachment system of claim 6, wherein:
each bracket assembly comprises two back-to-back L-angle brackets fastened to each other to form a generally Z-shaped assembly, a first end of which is for attachment to the wall and a second end of which is for fastening to a wall mounting bracket by means of the mechanical fastener.



8. The attachment system of claim 6, wherein:
each wall mounting bracket and each panel bracket comprises aluminum; and
each bracket assembly comprises steel.



9. The attachment system of claim 1, wherein the adhesive is one or more strips of bonding tape, structural silicone adhesive, or combinations thereof.


10. The attachment system of claim 1, further comprising:
at least two pieces of foam placed along the exterior surface of the wall mounting bracket, with one piece being placed above the central fastening surface, and the other being placed below the central fastening surface.



11. The attachment system of claim 1, further comprising:
at least two pieces of two-sided adhesive tape placed along the exterior surface of the wall mounting bracket, with one piece being placed above the central fastening surface, and the other being placed below the central fastening surface.



12. The attachment system of claim 1, further comprising:
a mechanical fastener for fastening the wall mounting bracket directly to the wall.



13. A system for attaching ceramic wall panels to an exterior building wall, each wall panel having a dead load, and the system comprising:
a plurality of bracket assemblies having a first end and a second end, with each bracket assembly being fastened at its first end to the exterior wall;
a plurality of rigid wall panels;
a plurality of wall mounting brackets configured to carry the dead loads of the respective wall panels, each wall mounting bracket having:
an exterior surface configured to reside adjacent to the building wall,
a central fastening surface along the exterior surface, and connected to a bracket assembly at its second end by means of a threaded fastener;
an upper channel above the central fastening surface extending opposite the exterior surface, and
a lower channel below the central fastening surface and also extending opposite the exterior surface;

a plurality of panel brackets, each panel bracket comprising:
an exterior surface configured to reside along a rear surface of a respective wall panel,
an adhesive material along the rear surface of each of the panels connecting the each of the panel brackets to a respective panel,
an upper channel extending opposite the exterior surface of the panel bracket and configured to nest on and within the upper channel of a respective wall mounting bracket, and
a lower channel also extending opposite the exterior surface of the panel bracket and configured to nest on and over the lower channel of the respective wall mounting bracket;

wherein:
the system is configured to allow wall panels to be attached to the bracket assemblies in any sequence or direction, and
each of the wall mounting brackets and the panel brackets is substantially similar in profile.




14. The attachment system of claim 13, wherein each of the wall mounting brackets and panel brackets is identical in dimension and configuration.


15. The attachment system of claim 13, wherein the adhesive material comprises one or more strips of bonding tape, structural silicone adhesive, or combinations thereof.


16. A method for attaching architectural wall panels to an exterior building wall, comprising:
providing a plurality of rigid wall panels;
operatively attaching a plurality of wall mounting brackets to the exterior building wall, each of the wall mounting brackets being spaced to accommodate the position of a corresponding wall panel, and each of the wall mounting brackets having:
an exterior surface configured to reside adjacent to the building wall,
a central fastening surface along the exterior surface;
an upper channel above the central fastening surface extending opposite the exterior surface, and
a lower channel below the central fastening surface and also extending opposite the exterior surface;

hanging a wall panel onto each of the wall mounting brackets, wherein each wall panel has an attached panel bracket, with each panel bracket comprising:
an exterior surface configured to reside along a rear surface of a respective wall panel,
an adhesive along the exterior surface connecting the panel bracket to a respective panel,
an upper channel nesting on and within the upper channel of a respective wall mounting bracket, and
a lower channel nesting on and over the lower channel of the respective wall mounting bracket;

wherein:
the system is configured to allow wall panels to be placed along the wall in any sequence or direction, and
each of the wall mounting brackets and the nested panel brackets is substantially similar in profile.




17. The method of claim 16, wherein each of the wall mounting brackets and the nested panel brackets is identical in dimension and configuration.


18. The method of claim 16, wherein the adhesive is one or more strips of bonding tape, structural silicone adhesive, or combinations thereof


19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
attaching a panel bracket to each of the respective wall panels by means of the adhesive.



20. The method of claim 19, further comprising:
identifying where on the rear surface of each panel the panel bracket is to be affixed.



21. The method of claim 18, wherein each panel bracket is pre-adhered to a wall panel before installation to the building wall.


22. The method of claim 16, wherein each panel bracket is hung onto a corresponding wall mounting bracket without using a mechanical fastener.


23. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
providing a plurality of bracket assemblies, with each bracket assembly having a first end and a second end;
attaching each of the plurality of bracket assemblies to the exterior building wall at the first end; and
wherein operatively attaching a plurality of wall mounting brackets to the exterior building wall comprises securing the wall mounting brackets to the second end of a bracket assembly at a selected location.



24. The method of claim 16, wherein operatively attaching a plurality of wall mounting brackets to the exterior building wall comprises securing the wall mounting brackets directly to the wall at selected locations.


25. The method of claim 24, wherein securing the wall mounting brackets directly to the wall comprises running a screw through the central fastening surface and into the wall at the selected locations. 

