
A solar concentrator assembly can include mirror assemblies that are connected to pivotable frames with locating connections. The locating connections can be in the form of cam devices or tool-less connections formed by snap fitting devices as well as tool-less cam devices.



1. A solar energy concentrator, comprising:
a frame;
at least one longitudinal trough-shaped mirror supported by the frame; and
at least one connection device connecting the at least one longitudinal trough-shaped mirror to the frame, the connection device comprising at least one tool-less connection connecting the mirror to the frame when the tool-less connection is in an engaged state.



2. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a torque tube extending along a first longitudinal axis and being supported above the ground for rotational movement about the longitudinal axis of the torque tube.


3. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of transverse ribs extending transverse to a longitudinal axis of the frame.


4. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 3 additionally comprising a plurality of longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors.


5. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 4, wherein each of the longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors extend along a plurality of second longitudinal axes and each of the longitudinal trough-shaped mirrors being supported by the transverse ribs;


6. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the at least one tool-less connection comprises at least first and second pivot mounts.


7. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, additionally comprising a pivot mount configured to guide the longitudinal trough-shaped mirror through a pivoting motion about a pivot axis, between a disconnected state in which the tool-less connection is not in an engaged state and in which the mirror can be rotated about the pivot axis and a second connected state in which the tool-less connection is engaged with a snap fitting thereby preventing movement of the longitudinal trough-shaped mirror through the pivoting motion.


8. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection comprises a snap fitting and comprises biased spring members and apertures aligned such that at least a portion of the spring member extends into the aperture when the snap fitting is in the second connected state.


9. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 8, wherein the spring member is configured to bias the mirror toward the frame.


10. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection comprises a snap fitting which comprises a first portion fixed to the mirror and a second portion fixed to the frame.


11. (canceled)


12. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 10, wherein the second portion comprises a at least one elastically deflectable portion which is positioned so as to be deflected by the first portion as the mirror is moved to connect the snap fitting.


13. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection is configured such that as the mirror is moved toward the frame along a single direction, the tool-less connection is moved from a disengaged state to the engaged state.


14. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 1, wherein the tool-less connection comprises at least one cam member that is configured to rotate between open and locked position, wherein in the locked position, the cam member achieves an over-center state with a positive pressing force against a mating surface so as to secure the at least one longitudinal trough-shaped mirror to the frame.


15. A solar energy concentrator, comprising:
a frame;
at least one longitudinal trough-shaped mirror supported by the frame;
connection means for connecting the at least one longitudinally trough-shaped mirror to the frame with a tool-less, self-locking fit when the mirror is moved toward the frame.



16. The support structure according to claim 15, wherein the connection means comprises a first component fixed to the mirror and second component fixed to the frame, and means for locking the first and second components to each other by moving the mirror toward the frame in a single direction (straight or curved path).


17. The solar energy concentrator according to claim 15 additionally comprising means for defining a pivot path for the mirror relative to the frame, wherein the connection means comprises means for connecting the mirror to the frame as the mirror is moved along the pivot path.


18. A method of connecting a mirror of a concentrated solar reflector assembly, comprising:
connecting a first portion of a longitudinally extending trough-shaped mirror assembly from a first support disposed on a support frame;
moving the mirror assembly such that a second portion of the mirror assembly that is spaced from the first portion is moved toward a snap fitting disposed on the support frame; and
connecting the second portion to the snap fitting such that the mirror assembly is fixed to the support frame in a predetermined orientation.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of connecting the first portion comprises supporting all of a weight of the mirror assembly from the first support.


20. The method of claim 19, further comprising moving the mirror assembly along a pivot path defined by the first support.


21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of connecting comprises moving the mirror assembly from a position in which the snap fitting is disconnected, along a single path of movement to a position in which the snap fitting is in a connected state in which the mirror assembly is in the predetermined position. 

