
A mounting system for panel-type elements, in particular facade elements, thermoelectric generator elements, thermal solar collectors, photovoltaic modules or solar modules is described, for fastening and securing the element on at least one upper and one lower transverse rail, which are arranged in parallel with and at a spacing from each other for holding an element. The mounting system includes: at least one fastening member fixedly connected to the back side of the element and having at least one anchoring member arranged substantially perpendicularly to the back side for fastening to the upper transverse rail. In the installed position of the element, the fastening member has a smaller distance, relative to a line of slope, from an upper edge of an outer contour of the element than from a lower edge of the outer contour. A panel-type element including a like mounting system, as well as a substructure for holding such an element are also described.



1. A mounting system for panel-type elements, for fastening the element on at least one upper and one lower transverse rail which are arranged in parallel with and at a spacing from one another for holding an element,
the mounting system comprising:
at least one fastening member fixedly connected to the back side of the element, which comprises at least one anchoring member arranged substantially perpendicularly to the plane of the back side for fastening to the upper transverse rail,
wherein in the installed position of the element the fastening member has a smaller distance, relative to a line of slope, from an upper edge of an outer contour of the element than from a lower edge of the outer contour,
wherein at least one elastic member is arranged, relative to the line of slope, below the at least one fastening means on the back side of the element such that it rests on the lower transverse rail when an element is mounted on the transverse rails.



2. The mounting system according to claim 1,
wherein the mounting system further comprises at least one securing member which, in the installed position of the element, is arranged below the fastening member relative to the line of slope, and
wherein the securing member comprises an angled arm which extends at a spacing from and in parallel with the back side and substantially perpendicularly to the line of slope, which forms together with the back side a mouth-shaped opening opened substantially in the direction of the line of slope so as to reach around an undercut formed on or by the lower transverse rail when viewed from the mounting plane.



3. The mounting system according to claim 1,
wherein the at least one fastening member is fastened integrally to the back side of the element.



4. The mounting system according to claim 3, wherein the at least one fastening member is fastened integrally to the back side of the element using an adhesive bond.


5. The mounting system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one securing member is fastened integrally to the back side of the element.


6. The mounting system according to claim 1,
wherein a plurality of fastening members are arranged at the back side of the element on a line extending substantially perpendicularly to the line of slope.



7. The mounting system according to claim 2,
wherein a plurality of fastening members, and a plurality of securing members, are arranged at the back side of the element on a line extending substantially perpendicularly to the line of slope, and
wherein one respective fastening member and one respective securing member are arranged on the back side of the element on a line extending substantially in parallel with the line of slope.



8. The mounting system according to claim 7,
wherein the fastening member and/or the securing member are realized as profile rails each fastened to the back side of the element substantially perpendicularly to the line of slope.



9. The mounting system according to claim 1,
wherein the at least one fastening member or the at least one elastic member are each arranged inside the surface area of the back side at a distance from the outer contour of the PV-element, and in locations such that the element is subjected to a minimum flexural load in the installed position.



10. The mounting system according to claim 1,
wherein the anchoring member of the fastening member comprises an anchor body having an undercut member, in the form of at least one snap-in hook which is displaceable and self-resetting, arranged on an end of the anchor body opposite the back side of the element.



11. A panel-type element having a back side to which a mounting system according to claim 1 is fastened.


12. The element according to claim 11,
wherein the elements are photovoltaic modules.



13. A substructure for forming a mounting plane and for holding at least one panel-type element in the mounting plane in accordance with claim 11, wherein the substructure comprises:
at least one first and one second transverse rail which are arranged in parallel with and at a spacing from one another for holding at least one element,
wherein each one of the transverse rails comprises planar support surfaces at least in upper and lower bearing locations of the at least one element,
wherein at least the first transverse rail, which is arranged above the second transverse rail relative to a line of slope of the mounting plane, has, at least in the upper bearing locations recesses, undercuts for receiving the anchoring member and for cooperating with the displaceable undercut member having in particular the form of at least one snap-in hook,
wherein at least the second transverse rail comprises, at least in the area of lower bearing locations when viewed from the mounting plane, an undercut for a securing member fastened to the element, and in a preferred manner an elastic member is arranged on the support surface of the second transverse rail as a bearing surface for the back side of an element.



14. The substructure according to claim 13,
wherein at least the first transverse rail is a profile rail having a groove in the plane of support, wherein the groove forms the recess for the fastening member and comprises at least the undercut for the displaceable undercut member.



15. The substructure according to claim 13,
wherein at least the second transverse rail comprises a flange plate extending in parallel with the transverse rail so as to form the undercut.



16. The substructure according to claim 13,
wherein the first and second transverse rails are profile rails.



17. The substructure according to claim 16,
wherein the first and second transverse rails are extruded profile rails, consisting of a metal or a metal alloy.



18. The substructure according to claim 17,
wherein the metal or metal alloy comprises aluminum or an aluminum alloy. 


