
A system for monitoring and wirelessly transmitting solar array parameters such as current, voltage and temperature in real time is primarily housed within a recombiner box. The system lends itself to retrofitting within some commercially available recombiner boxes. Signals emitted from the RF controller component of the system are received by a central processor, which includes a dashboard interface. Multiple systems in proximity can be linked to form a mesh network with one central processor.



1) A monitoring system for at least one solar panel, said system comprising:
A) A sensor control module in communication with a solar panel, said solar panel associated with a solar array;
B) An RF controller in communication with said sensor control module, said RF controller including an antennae for wirelessly transmitting a signal; and
C) A receiver for said signal.



2) The system of claim 1 wherein said sensor control module includes at least one current sensor.


3) The system of claim 2 wherein the number of said current sensors is equal to the number of said arrays.


4) The system of claim 1 wherein said sensor control module includes a voltage sensor.


5) The system of claim 1 wherein said RF controller includes a temperature circuit.


6) The system of claim 1 wherein said receiver is in communication with a processor, said processor configured to interpret said signal, and display said interpretation within an interface.


7) A monitoring system for an array of solar panels, said system comprising:
A) A (re)combiner box, including at least one fuse bar with x number of fuses;
B) An “L”-shaped sensor control module, the leg of the “L” parallel to, and engaged, with said fuse bar; and
C) A bus bar engaged with the foot of the “L”, said bus bar parallel to, and engaged with, said fuse bar.



8) The monitoring system of claim 7 further comprising an RF controller in communication with said sensor control module, said RF controller including an antennae.


9) The monitoring system of claim 7 wherein said sensor module leg includes x number of current sensors.


10) The monitoring system of claim 9 wherein said current sensors are Hall effect sensors.


11) The monitoring system of claim 7 wherein said sensor module leg includes x number of bobbins, said bobbins each including a core comprised of at least two separate portions.


12) The monitoring system of claim 7 wherein said sensor module leg includes x number of bobbins, said bobbins each including a screw assembly with a movable plate.


13) A system of collecting solar energy, said system including:
A) An array of solar panels each in communication with a (re)combiner box;
B) A sensor control module in communication with each array, said sensor control module within said (re)combiner box;
C) An RF antennae in communication with said sensor control module; and
D) At least one receiver in communication with said RF antennae.



14) The system of claim 13 wherein said at least one receiver is in communication with at least one processor.


15) The system of claim 13 further comprising at least one additional array of solar panels, said array and said additional array in communication one with another.

