
An apparatus includes a support member having a proximal end securable to a substantially fixed surface and a distal end opposite the proximal end; a solar energy member mounted to the support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the support member, where the solar energy member includes a first portion and a second portion arranged such that the support member extends substantially vertically between the two portions and the two portions are rotatable about a first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member and about a second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member; and a plurality of cables, where each cable includes a first end secured to the distal end of the support member and a second end secured to a substantially fixed position, where the cables are configured to resist a wind load acting on the apparatus.



1. A solar energy system, comprising:
a first plurality of heliostats arranged in a first row; and
a second plurality of heliostats arranged in a second row that is substantially parallel to the first row,
wherein at least one of the first plurality of heliostats and at least one of the second plurality of heliostats comprise:
a vertical support member having a proximal end secured to a base supported by a terranean surface and a distal end opposite the proximal end;
a mirror member mounted to the vertical support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the vertical support member, wherein the mirror member includes a first portion and a second portion arranged such that the vertical support member extends vertically between the two portions and the two portions are rotatable about a first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member and about a second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member; and
a plurality of cables, each cable comprising a first end secured to the distal end of the vertical support member and a securable second end opposite the first end, wherein the cables are configured to resist a wind load acting on the heliostat.




2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least some of the second ends of cables of heliostats in the first row are secured to bases of heliostats in the second row and at least some of the second ends of cables of heliostats in the second row are secured to bases of heliostats in the first row.


3. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a third plurality of heliostats arranged in a third row positioned between the first and second rows.



4. The system of claim 3, further comprising:
a fourth plurality of heliostats arranged in a fourth row positioned such that one of the first or second rows are between the third and fourth rows,
wherein at least one of the fourth plurality of heliostats comprise:
a vertical support member having a proximal end secured to a base supportable by the terranean surface and a distal end opposite the proximal end;
a mirror member mounted to the vertical support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the vertical support member, wherein the mirror member includes a first portion and a second portion arranged such that the vertical support member extends vertically between the two portions and the two portions are rotatable about the vertical support member; and
a plurality of cables, each cable comprising a first end secured to the distal end of the vertical support member and a second end opposite the first end,

wherein at least some of the second ends of cables of heliostats in the fourth row are secured to bases of heliostats in the third row and at least some of the second ends of cables of heliostats in the third row are secured to bases of heliostats in the fourth row.



5. The system of claim 1, wherein cables secured to the distal ends of vertical support members of particular heliostats in the first plurality of heliostats at respective first ends of the cables are secured to the distal ends of vertical support members of particular heliostats in the second plurality of heliostats at respective second ends of the cables.


6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of heliostats comprises a first heliostat positioned at an end of the first row such that a first cable secured to a distal end of the first heliostat at the first end of the cable is also secured to the terranean surface at the second end of the cable, and a second cable secured to the distal end of the first heliostat at the first end of the second cable is also secured to a distal end of a second heliostat.


7. The system of claim 6, wherein the second heliostat is one of the second plurality of heliostats arranged in the second row.


8. The system of claim 6, wherein the second heliostat is one of the first plurality of heliostats arranged in the first row.


9. An apparatus comprising:
a support member having a proximal end securable to a substantially fixed surface and a distal end opposite the proximal end;
a solar energy member mounted to the support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the support member, wherein the solar energy member includes a first portion and a second portion arranged such that the support member extends substantially vertically between the two portions and the two portions are rotatable about a first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member and about a second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member; and
a plurality of cables, each cable comprising a first end secured to the distal end of the support member and a second end secured to a substantially fixed position, wherein the cables are configured to resist a wind load acting on the apparatus.



10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the solar energy member comprises a reflective surface configured to reflect solar rays incident on the reflective surface toward a solar energy receiver.


11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the solar energy member is configured to rotate about the first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member and about the second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member without touching the plurality of cables such the solar rays incident on the reflective surface are reflected toward the solar energy receiver.


12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the solar energy member is a solar panel comprising at least one photovoltaic cell.


13. The apparatus of claim 9, the plurality of cables comprising three cables, wherein the three cables are secured to the distal end of the support member at respective first ends of the cables and secured to distinct substantially fixed positions at respective second ends of the cables opposite the respective first ends.


14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the location between the proximal and distal ends of the support member is at approximately a midpoint of the support member between the distal end of the support member and the substantially fixed surface.


15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the location comprises a position on the support member where angular deflection of the support member due to the wind load on the apparatus is minimized as a function of lateral deflection of the support member due to the wind load.


16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first and second portions of the solar energy member are substantially equal in size.


17. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the support member comprises a wooden post.


18. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the substantially fixed surface is a footer comprising one of the following:
a post hole formed in a terranean surface and configured to receipt the support member;
a concrete mass including an aperture configured to receive the support member; or
a plastic boot securable to the terranean surface and configured to receive the support member.



19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the support member comprises a first support member, and the substantially fixed position to which the second end of at least one cable is secured comprises a footer of a second support member, the second support member having a proximal end securable to the footer and a distal end opposite the proximal end, the second support member configured to support a second solar energy member mounted to the support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the second support member.


20. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the solar power member comprises an aspect ratio of approximately 4:1.


21. A method for managing a solar energy system comprising:
mounting a proximal end of a substantially vertical support member to a substantially fixed surface, the support member having a distal end opposite the proximal end;
mounting a solar energy member to the support member at a location between the proximal and distal ends of the support member, the solar energy member comprising a first portion and a second portion arranged such that the support member extends between the first and second portions and the first and second portions are rotatable about a first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member and about a second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member;
securing a plurality of cables to the support member adjacent the distal end of the support member at respective first ends of the cables; and
securing the plurality of cables to one or more substantially fixed positions at respective second ends of the cables, wherein the cables are configured to resist a wind load acting on the solar energy system.



22. The method of claim 21, wherein the location comprises a position on the support member where angular deflection of the support member due to a wind load on the support member is minimized as a function of lateral deflection of the support member due to the wind load on the support member.


23. The method of claim 21, wherein the location is near a midpoint between the distal end of the support member and the substantially fixed surface.


24. The method of claim 21, wherein securing the plurality of cables to one or more substantially fixed positions at respective second ends of the cables comprises securing each of the cables to a distinct location on a terranean surface at the respective second end of the cable.


25. The method of claim 21, wherein securing the plurality of cables to one or more substantially fixed positions at respective second ends of the cables comprises securing each of the cables to another support member distinct from the support member at the respective second end of the cable.


26. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
rotating the solar energy member about the first axis to adjust azimuth of the solar energy member without touching the plurality of cables such that the solar rays incident on a reflective surface of the solar energy member are reflected toward a solar energy receiver; and
rotating the solar energy support member about the second axis to adjust elevation of the solar energy member without touching the plurality of cables such that the solar rays incident on a reflective surface of the solar energy member are reflected toward a solar energy receiver.


