
A truss reinforcing retrofit kit and method for strengthening an existing roof structure. The kit includes a tensile member, two couplings attached to the ends of the tensile member, and a king post tensioning system. The tensile member is coupled to the ends of the roof structure using the couplings. The king post tensioning system is positioned between the roof structure and the middle of the tensile member. Tension is increased within the tensile member so as to put the tensile member and the king post tensioning system under strain when there is an additional load on the roof structure in addition to a pre-existing dead load. For example, the additional load may be caused by one or more solar panels mounted on the roof structure. Alternatively, the tension might put the tensile member and the king post tensioning system under strain when the roof structure is subject only to the pre-existing dead load.



1. An apparatus for mounting a solar panel on an existing roof structure comprising:
a) a mounting structure for supporting the solar panel on the roof structure; and
b) a retrofit kit comprising:
i) a tensile member having two ends and a middle portion;
ii) two couplings attached to the ends of the tensile member, the couplings being couplable to the roof structure such that the tensile member extends along the roof structure; and
iii) a king post tensioning system having an upper portion connectable to the roof structure, and a lower portion connectable to the middle portion of the tensile member;


wherein the tensile member and the king post tensioning system are configured to be under strain when there are loads on the roof structure caused by the mounting structure and the solar panel.


2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising additional truss end reinforcing members.


3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tensile member is a continuous cable.


4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the king post tensioning system has a convex lower end shaped to engage the cable.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the upper portion of the king post tensioning system is shaped to fit within a gap within the roof structure so as to connect the king post tensioning system to the roof structure.


6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the couplings include hooks attached to the ends of the tensile member, each of the hooks configured to hook onto the roof structure.


7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting structure includes a housing shaped to receive ballast.


8. A method for mounting a solar panel on an existing roof structure, the method comprising:
a) providing a tensile member having two ends and a middle portion;
b) coupling the two ends of the tensile member to the roof structure such that the tensile member extends along the roof structure;
c) providing a king post tensioning system;
d) positioning the king post tensioning system between the roof structure and the middle portion of the tensile member;
e) tensioning the tensile member; and
f) mounting the solar panel on the roof structure;

wherein the tensile member and the king post tensioning system are configured to be under strain when there are loads on the roof structure caused by mounting the solar panel on the roof structure.


9. The method of claim 8, wherein the tensile member and the king post tensioning system are configured to be under strain when there is a pre-existing dead load on the roof structure prior to mounting the solar panel on the roof structure.


10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of tensioning the tensile member occurs before mounting the solar panel on the roof structure.


11. The method of claim 8, further comprising ballasting the solar panel on the roof structure.


12. The method of claim 8, further comprising reinforcing the roof structure proximal to the ends of the tensile member.


13. A retrofit kit for strengthening an existing roof structure comprising:
a) a tensile member having two ends and a middle portion;
b) two couplings attached to the ends of the tensile member, the couplings being couplable to the roof structure such that the tensile member extends along the roof structure; and
c) a king post tensioning system having an upper portion connectable to the existing roof structure, and a lower portion connectable to the middle portion of the tensile member.



14. The retrofit kit of claim 13, further comprising additional truss end reinforcing members.


15. The retrofit kit of claim 13, wherein the tensile member and the king post tensioning system are configured to be under strain when there is a pre-existing dead load on the roof structure.


16. The retrofit kit of claim 13, wherein the tensile member is a continuous cable.


17. The retrofit kit of claim 15, wherein the king post tensioning system has a convex lower end shaped to engage the cable.


18. The retrofit kit of claim 15, wherein the lower portion of the king post tensioning system has a channel shaped to receive the cable.


19. The retrofit kit of claim 13, wherein the upper portion of the king post tensioning system is shaped to fit within a gap within the roof structure so as to connect the king post tensioning system to the roof structure.


20. The retrofit kit of claim 13, wherein the couplings include hooks attached to the ends of the tensile member, each of the hooks configured to hook onto the roof structure.

