
A collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules thereon, comprising a plurality of module support rails each configured to be attached to a portion of a photovoltaic module and a plurality of supporting beams. A first of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a first portion of the rails and a second of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a second portion of the rails. The supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams. Further, each supporting beam has a plurality of openings through which a hardware connector can be passed to connect the supporting beam to a support structure.



1. A collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules thereon, comprising:
a plurality of module support rails each configured to be attached to a portion of a photovoltaic module; and
a plurality of supporting beams;
wherein a first of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a first portion of the rails and a second of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a second portion of the rails;
wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams; and
wherein each supporting beam has a plurality of openings through which a hardware connector can be passed to connect the supporting beam to a support structure.



2. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, further comprising a lock that locks the rails in an orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams.


3. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 2, wherein the lock can unlock to allow the rails to be moved to an orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams.


4. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the rails are hollow.


5. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the supporting beams are hollow.


6. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the rails and supporting beams are constructed from steel.


7. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, wherein the rails and supporting beams are constructed from aluminum


8. The collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework of claim 1, further comprising the support structure, the support structure comprising a supporting column and tilt bracket.


9. A photovoltaic module ground mounting system for mounting a plurality of photovoltaic modules in a plurality of rows and columns thereon, comprising:
a support structure comprising an upper end, wherein the support structure can be installed perpendicular to a surface;
a support surface installed on the upper end of the support structure;
a collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework configured to be mounted to the support surface, the framework comprising:
a plurality of module support rails each configured to be attached to a portion of a photovoltaic module; and
a plurality of supporting beams;
wherein a first of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a first portion of the rails and a second of the supporting beams is positioned under, and pivotally connected to, a second portion of the rails;
wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams; and
wherein each supporting beam has a plurality of openings through which a hardware connector can be passed to connect the supporting beam to the support surface.



10. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, further comprising a lock that locks the rails in an orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams.


11. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 10, wherein the lock can unlock to allow the rails to be moved to an orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams.


12. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, wherein the rails and supporting beams are a rectangular shape and hollow.


13. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, wherein the supporting beams are pivotally connected to the rails at pivot points near either side of a center of the module support rails.


14. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, wherein the supporting beams are pivotally connected to the rails at pivot points provided near ends of the module support rails.


15. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, wherein the rails and supporting beams are constructed from steel or aluminum


16. The photovoltaic module ground mounting system of claim 9, wherein the support structure comprises a supporting column and the support surface comprises a tilt bracket.


17. A method of installing a plurality of photovoltaic modules in a plurality of rows and columns thereon, comprising the steps of:
positioning a support structure comprising a support surface installed on an upper end of the support structure;
attaching a photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework to the support surface, wherein the photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework comprises:
a plurality of module mounting rails each configured to be attached to a portion of a photovoltaic module;
a plurality of supporting beams;
wherein a first of the supporting beams is positioned under, and is pivotally connected to, a first portion of the rails and a second of the supporting beams is positioned under, and is pivotally connected to, a second portion of the rails;
wherein the supporting beams can be moved to a relative position adjacent to each other by moving the rails from a first orientation substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams to a second orientation substantially oblique to the supporting beams; and
wherein a top surface of each supporting beam has a plurality of openings through which a hardware connector can be passed to connect the supporting beam to the support surface, said photovoltaic mounting assembly being attached to the support surface with the rails being substantially perpendicular to the supporting beams; and

mounting photovoltaic modules to the photovoltaic module mounting framework assembly.



18. The method of claim 17, wherein the support structure is a supporting column and the support surface is a tilt bracket.


19. The method of claim 17, wherein attaching a collapsible photovoltaic module mounting assembly framework to the support surface comprises bolting each supporting beam to the support surface through the openings in the supporting beams.


20. The method of claim 17, wherein the rails and supporting beams are a rectangular shape, hollow, and constructed of aluminum.

