
A four quadrant bidirectional switch. In one embodiment, the four quadrant bidirectional switch comprises a first switch, a second switch, and a third switch, wherein (i) the first and second switches are normally-off switches, (ii) the third switch is a dual-gate, bidirectional, normally-on switch, and (iii) the first, the second, and the third switches are coupled to one another in a bi-cascode configuration.



1. A four quadrant bidirectional switch comprising:
a first switch, a second switch, and a third switch, wherein (i) the first and second switches are normally-off switches, (ii) the third switch is a dual-gate, bidirectional, normally-on switch, and (iii) the first, the second, and the third switches are coupled to one another in a bi-cascode configuration.



2. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 1, wherein the first and second switches are silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETS).


3. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 2, wherein the first and second switches are n-channel enhancement mode switches.


4. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 1, wherein the third switch comprises a wide bandgap semiconductor material.


5. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 4, wherein the wide bandgap semiconductor material is aluminum gallium nitride/gallium nitride (AlGaN/GaN).


6. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 5, wherein the third switch employs a High Electron Mobility Transistor (HEMT) structure.


7. The four quadrant bidirectional switch of claim 1, wherein each gate of the third switch is an insulated gate.


8. A power conversion system, comprising:
a power converter comprising a four quadrant bidirectional switch comprising a first switch, a second switch, and a third switch, wherein (i) the first and second switches are normally-off switches, (ii) the third switch is a dual-gate, bidirectional, normally-on switch, and (iii) the first, the second, and the third switches are coupled to one another in a bi-cascode configuration.



9. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the first and second switches are silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETS).


10. The power conversion system of claim 9, wherein the first and second switches are n-channel enhancement mode switches.


11. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the third switch comprises a wide bandgap semiconductor material.


12. The power conversion system of claim 11, wherein the wide bandgap semiconductor material is aluminum gallium nitride/gallium nitride (AlGaN/GaN).


13. The power conversion system of claim 12, wherein the third switch employs a High Electron Mobility Transistor (HEMT) structure.


14. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein each gate of the third switch is an insulated gate.


15. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the power converter is a resonant converter.


16. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the power converter is a DC-DC converter.


17. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the power converter is a DC-AC inverter.


18. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the power converter is an AC-AC converter.


19. The power conversion system of claim 8, wherein the power converter receives a DC input from a renewable energy source.


20. The power conversion system of claim 19, wherein the renewable energy source is a photovoltaic (PV) module.

