
An inverter device for feeding electrical energy from a DC-power source into a power grid includes a pair of bus lines to be connected to the DC-power source; a plurality of capacitors connected in series between the bus lines; a surveying topology surveying an integrity of the plurality of capacitors, and to provide a signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors; a voltmeter measuring a voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors; a DC/AC-inverter; and a controller. In case of the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors, the controller compares the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors to a lost integrity threshold voltage value, and reduces a current load to the plurality of capacitors by reducing the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter, when the voltage drop exceeds the lost integrity threshold voltage value.



1. An inverter device for feeding electrical energy from a DC-power source into a power grid, the inverter device comprising:
a pair of bus lines configured to be connected to the DC-power source;
a plurality of capacitors connected in series between the pair of bus lines;
a surveying topology configured to survey an integrity of the plurality of capacitors, and configured to provide a signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors;
a voltmeter configured to measure a voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors;
a DC/AC-inverter coupled to the pair of bus lines; and
a controller configured to, upon the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors, compare the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors measured by the voltmeter to a lost integrity threshold voltage value, and configured to reduce a current load to the plurality of capacitors by reducing the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter, when the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors exceeds the lost integrity threshold voltage value or a voltage associated therewith.



2. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein reducing the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter includes stopping the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter.


3. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to reduce the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter by at least one of:
directly controlling the DC/AC-inverter; and
controlling a DC/DC-converter connected between the plurality of capacitors and the DC/AC-inverter.



4. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to output a failure signal to an operator of the inverter device, when the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors exceeds the lost integrity threshold voltage value or a voltage associated therewith.


5. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein the surveying topology comprises:
a plurality of resistors connected in series between the pair of bus lines, the plurality of resistors being connected in parallel to the plurality of capacitors; and
a comparator configured to compare an electric potential of an intermediate point between two capacitors of the plurality of capacitors with an electric potential of an intermediate point between two resistors of the plurality of resistors, and configured to provide the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors when a difference between the two electric potentials exceeds a predetermined threshold value.



6. The inverter device according to claim 5, wherein the capacitors on both sides of the intermediate point between the two capacitors of the plurality of capacitors are of equal total capacitance, and the resistors of the plurality of resistors on both sides of the intermediate point between the two resistors of the plurality of resistors are of equal total resistance.


7. The inverter device according to claim 5, wherein voltages dropping over the capacitors on both sides of the intermediate point between the two capacitors of the plurality of capacitors are defined by means of further resistors connected in parallel to these capacitors, and wherein a ratio of resistance of these further resistors on both sides of the intermediate point between the two capacitors, and a ratio of resistance of the resistors of the plurality of resistors on both sides of the intermediate point between the two resistors of the plurality of resistors are equal.


8. The inverter device according to claim 5, wherein the signal operates a switch.


9. The inverter device according to claim 8, wherein the switch is arranged in parallel to a resistor of a second plurality of resistors connected in series between the bus lines and in parallel to the capacitors, and further comprising a voltage limiter configured to limit a voltage drop over at least one of the second plurality of resistors, wherein the voltage limiter is configured to selectively operate a pulsed switch arranged in one of the bus lines at a point located from the capacitors and resistors towards the DC-power source.


10. The inverter device according to claim 9, wherein the pulsed switch is part of a second DC/DC-converter configured to be connected between the DC-power source and the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors.


11. The inverter device according to claim 9, further comprising a second voltmeter configured to measure a voltage drop over the pulsed switch, and wherein the controller evaluates both the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors measured by the voltmeter and the voltage drop over the pulsed switch measured by the second voltmeter.


12. The inverter device according to claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to evaluate a relation between the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors measured by the voltmeter and the voltage drop over the pulsed switch measured by the second voltmeter, and determine whether the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors has been provided by the surveying topology based on the relation.


13. The inverter device according to claim 8, wherein the comparator comprises an LED connected to the intermediate points between the two capacitors of the plurality of capacitors and between the two resistors of the plurality of resistors via a current rectifier H-bridge, wherein the LED is part of an opto-coupler operating the switch.


14. The inverter device according to claim 13, wherein the current rectifier H-bridge is made of four rectifying diodes.


15. The inverter device according to claim 14, wherein the LED is connected in series with a Zener-diode.


16. The inverter device according to claim 5, wherein the comparator comprises a further voltage meter configured to measure the difference in the electric potential between the two intermediate points between the two capacitors of the plurality of capacitors and between the two resistors of the plurality of resistors.


17. The inverter device according to claim 1, further comprising a voltage limiter configured to limit the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors, wherein the voltage limiter is configured to operate a second DC/DC-converter configured to be connected between the DC-power source and the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors, and wherein the voltage limiter is configured to, upon the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors, limit the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors to the lost integrity threshold voltage value or a value associated therewith.


18. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to be powered by the DC-power source when coupled thereto.


19. The inverter device according to claim 1, wherein the DC-power source is selected from the group consisting of photo voltaic panels, electric generators, photovoltaic panels combined with DC/DC-converters, electric generators combined with DC/DC-converters and electric generators combined with DC/AC-inverters.


20. An inverter device for feeding electrical energy from a DC-power source into a power grid, the inverter device comprising:
a pair of bus lines configured to be connected to the DC-power source;
a plurality of capacitors connected in series between the pair of bus lines;
a surveying topology configured to survey an integrity of the plurality of capacitors, and configured to provide a signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors;
a voltmeter configured to measure a voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors;
a DC/AC-inverter coupled to the pair of bus lines;
a voltage limiter configured to limit the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors, the voltage limiter operating a pulsed switch connected between the DC-power source and the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors in one of the bus lines, and wherein the voltage limiter is further configured to, upon the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors, limit the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors to the lost integrity threshold voltage value via the pulsed switch; and
a controller configured to, upon the signal indicating a loss of integrity of one capacitor of the plurality of capacitors, compare the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors to a lost integrity threshold voltage value, and configured to reduce a current load to the plurality of capacitors by reducing the power uptake of the DC/AC-inverter, when the voltage drop over the plurality of capacitors exceeds the lost integrity threshold voltage value.


