
Apparatus and techniques for mounting frameless photovoltaic modules reduce module stress induced by the mounting configuration. Cable clamps and cable spacing configured to relieve module stress by reducing or eliminating module sag are used.



1. A photovoltaic module assembly, comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet; and
a plurality of cable clamps configured for attachment of the module to a cable-based mounting structure, the plurality of cable clamps attached to the backside sheet of the module.



2. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of cable clamps is attached to the backside sheet of the module by a UV-stable adhesive.


3. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of cable clamps comprises a plurality of members configured to receive the cable in a channel, and one or more fasteners for securing the members to the cable in the channel.


4. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 3, further comprising an elastomer in the channel.


5. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 3, wherein the each of the plurality of cable clamps comprises:
a first member attached to the backside sheet of the module, the first member comprising the channel configured to receive the cable;
a second member; and
one or more fasteners for attaching the members to each other to secure the cable in the channel.



6. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 5, wherein the second member comprises a channel configured to receive the cable.


7. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 5, wherein the fasteners comprise screws.


8. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 5, further comprising an elastomer in the channel.


9. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the cable clamps are comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic and composite, and combinations thereof.


10. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


11. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


12. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 11, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


13. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 11, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


14. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 13, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


15. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


16. A method of making a frameless photovoltaic module assembly, the method comprising:
providing a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet; and
attaching a plurality of cable clamps to the backside sheet of the module, the plurality of clamps configured for attachment of the module to a cable-based mounting structure.



17. The method of claim 16, wherein the plurality of cable clamps is attached to the backside sheet of the module by a UV-stable adhesive.


18. The method of claim 17, wherein each of the plurality of cable clamps comprises a plurality of members configured to receive the cable in a channel, and one or more fasteners for securing the members to the cable in the channel.


19. The method of claim 18, further comprising providing an elastomer in the channel.


20. The method of claim 16, wherein the plurality of clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


21. A photovoltaic assembly, comprising:
a photovoltaic module cable-based mounting structure comprising a plurality of cables; and
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet; and
a plurality of cable clamps configured for attachment of the module to the cable-based mounting structure, the plurality of cable clamps attached to the backside sheet of the module and the plurality of cables.



22. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, wherein the plurality of cable clamps is attached to the backside sheet of the module by a UV-stable adhesive.


23. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 22, wherein each of the plurality of cable clamps comprises a plurality of members configured to receive the cable in a channel, and one or more fasteners for securing the members to the cable in the channel.


24. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 23, further comprising an elastomer in the channel.


25. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, wherein the cable clamps are comprised of a material is selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic and composite, and combinations thereof.


26. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, wherein the plurality of clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


27. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


28. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 27, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


29. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 27, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


30. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 29, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


31. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


32. A method of installing a frameless photovoltaic module, comprising:
providing a frameless photovoltaic module having a frontside sheet, a backside sheet and a plurality of cable clamps attached to the backside sheet of the module, the plurality of clamps configured for attachment of the module to a cable-based mounting structure; and
securing the plurality of clamps to cables of the cable-based mounting structure, thereby attaching the frameless photovoltaic module assembly to the cable-based mounting structure.



33. The method of claim 32, wherein the plurality of cable clamps is attached to the backside sheet of the module by a UV-stable adhesive.


34. The method of claim 33, wherein each of the plurality of cable clamps comprises a plurality of members configured to receive the cable in a channel, and one or more fasteners for securing the members to the cable in the channel.


35. The method of claim 34, further comprising providing an elastomer in the channel.


36. The method of claim 32, wherein the plurality of clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


37. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, further comprising:
one or more stop clamps secured to the cables of the cable-based mounting structure.



38. The photovoltaic assembly of claim 21, further comprising:
a plurality of mounts securing the cables to a cable support structure, the mounts comprising one or more intermediate mounts in addition to mounts at the cable ends.



39. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein each cable clamp of the plurality of cable clamps includes:
a strip of material spanning the transverse direction of a module and attached to the backside sheet of the module,
and two or more clamp components, wherein the clamp components are configured to attach to the strip of material and clamp the cable between the clamp components and the strip of material. 


