
A solar panel assembly attachment apparatus is provided. In another aspect, a single piece and entirely metallic grounding clip is employed. A further aspect includes a clip or fastener which provides both frame grounding and a frame-to-strut attachment. In still another aspect, a grounding clip having barbs is linearly slid onto a solar panel frame and the clip additionally includes one or more flexible wings which are removably snap-fit into a slot of an elongated and rigid strut.



1. A solar panel assembly attachment apparatus comprising an electrically conductive and single piece grounding clip further comprising:
at least one substantially C-shaped clamp;
multiple barbs internally projecting from at least one wall defining the clamp; and
a mounting section including flexible wings;
the at least one clamp being adapted to linearly slide onto and sandwich a flange of a solar panel assembly frame therein;
the barbs of the clip being adapted to electrically connect and provide a ground to the frame; and
the mounting section being adapted to linearly enter an opening in a strut such that the wings are adapted to snap into engagement with the strut.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the clip further comprises a second substantially C-shaped clamp including at least one barb which is adapted to engage and ground the flange of the frame.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the clamps are laterally spaced apart with the wings being centrally located therebetween to define a substantially T-shape when viewed from its front elevation.


4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the barbs include at least four spaced apart barbs which gouge into at least one coated surface of the flange of the frame when installed.


5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wings flex about their proximal ends which are opposite the clamp, the wings are at least twice as long between their ends as compared to their lateral widths, each wing includes a step across its width that is located closer to its free end than its hinged end, and a receptacle of the clamp is openly accessible by the frame in substantially the same direction as a direction of flexure of the wings.


6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a glass solar panel mounted to the frame and hiding a majority of the clip when completely attached to the strut, the strut having a substantially U-shaped end view with the internal surfaces being reverse-turned walls, and the wings removably abutting against edges of the reverse-turned walls.


7. A solar panel assembly attachment apparatus comprising:
an elongated and rigid strut including a pair of opposed internal surfaces defining a slot therebetween;
a solar panel frame including a lateral flange; and
a clip further comprising a substantially C-shaped clamp coupled to a mounting section including flexible wings, the clamp including a receptacle defined between spaced apart clamping walls, and at least one barb projecting from at least one of the clamping walls into the receptacle;
the flange of the frame being linearly received into the receptacle of the clamp so the at least one barb engages the frame;
the mounting section being linearly inserted into the slot of the strut so the wings snap into engagement with the internal surfaces of the strut; and
the at least one barb grounding the clip to the frame and the clip attaching the frame to the strut.



8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprises a second substantially C-shaped clamp including at least one barb which engages and grounds the flange of the frame.


9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the clamps are laterally spaced apart with the wings being centrally located therebetween to define a substantially T-shape when viewed from its front elevation.


10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the clip is a single metallic piece which directly contacts against opposite surfaces of the flange of the frame which is also metallic.


11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one barb includes at least four spaced apart barbs which cut into at least one coated surface of the flange of the frame when installed.


12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the wings flex about their ends which are opposite the clamp, the wings being at least twice as long between their ends as compared to their lateral widths, each wing includes a step across its width that is located closer to its free end than its proximal end, and the clip further comprises multiple locating and anti-rotation tabs each projecting in a strut-engaging direction outboard of opposite lateral ends of the clip.


13. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a glass solar panel mounted to the frame and hiding a majority of the clip when completely attached to the strut, the strut having a substantially U-shaped end view with the internal surfaces being reverse-turned walls, and the wings removably abutting against edges of the reverse-turned walls.


14. A solar panel assembly attachment apparatus comprising:
(a) a solar panel frame;
(b) a grounding fastener further comprising:
(i) a first substantially C-shaped clasp;
(ii) at least a second substantially C-shaped clasp, each of the clasps sandwiching a portion of the frame therein;
(iii) at least one pointed projection extending from each of the clamps to provide electrical grounding contact with the portion of the frame;
(iv) a member longitudinally extending in a substantially perpendicular direction to a plane laterally spanning between walls of the clasps; and
(v) at least one snap-in wing being flexibly coupled adjacent a distal end of the member.




15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a second snap-in wing being flexibly coupled adjacent the distal end of a second member of the fastener, each of the wings including a step located closer to its free end than to its proximal end.


16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the elongated member is bent in a tapered direction at its end opposite the clasps, and frame access-openings of the clasps are both oriented in substantially the same direction as a flexure direction of the wing.


17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the elongated member is bent in a tapered direction at its end opposite the clasps, and frame access-openings of the clasps are both oriented in substantially the same direction as a flexure direction of the wing.


18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the clasps are laterally spaced apart with the wing being centrally located therebetween to define a substantially T-shape when viewed from its front elevation.


19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the fastener is a single metallic piece which directly contacts against opposite surfaces of the portion of the frame which is also metallic.


20. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a glass solar panel mounted to the frame and hiding a majority of the fastener when completely attached to an elongated strut, the strut having a substantially U-shaped end view with the internal surfaces being reverse-turned walls, and the wings removably abutting against edges of the reverse-turned walls.


21. A solar panel assembly attachment apparatus comprising an electrically conductive grounding fastener further comprising:
(a) a first clamp;
(b) at least a second clamp laterally spaced apart from the first clamp;
(c) at least one pointed projection extending from each of the clamps to provide grounding contact;
(d) a bridge spanning between the clamps;
(e) elongated members longitudinally extending from the bridge;
(f) a first snap-in wing flexible coupled between a pair of the members;
(g) a second snap-in wing flexibly coupled between another pair of the members, each of the wings including a step located closer to its free end than to its flexibly coupled end;
(h) a bent tapered segment located adjacent a distal end of the members; and
(i) anti-rotational tabs located adjacent and laterally outboard of the clamps.



22. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising an elongated strut having a slot and a solar panel frame having a flange, the clamps linearly sliding onto the frame such that the pointed projections provide a grounding path between the flange of the frame and the fastener, the wings of the fastener snapping into the slot of the strut in a removable manner, the direction of flexure of the wings being substantially the same as a direction of linear sliding of the clamps onto the frame, and the fastener attaching the frame to the strut in an unthreaded manner.


23. A method of grounding a solar panel frame and attaching the frame to a rigid strut, the method comprising:
(a) linearly pushing a single piece and entirely metallic clip onto a portion of the solar panel frame;
(b) compressing more than two spaced apart pointed projections of the clip into the portion of the frame; and
(c) flexibly snapping wings of the clip into the rigid strut;
wherein the clip grounds the frame and attaches the frame to the strut in primarily linear unthreaded installation motions.



24. The method of claim 22, further comprising pre-assembling the clip to the frame off-site in a factory.


25. The method of claim 22, further comprising pre-assembling the clip to the frame prior to attachment of the clip or frame to the strut.


26. The method of claim 22, further comprising cutting a coating on the frame with the pointed projections, and using the clip to electrically ground the frame to the strut.


27. The method of claim 22, further comprising engaging the portion of the frame with at least two substantially C-shaped and spaced apart clamps of the clip, the pointed projections internally extending within the clamps, and the wings being centrally located substantially between the clamps. 

