
An inverter including a switch circuit for converting a DC power to output an AC voltage between a first output terminal and a second output terminal is provided. The switch circuit includes a first switch branch having a first switch element, a second switch element, and a third switch element; a second switch branch having a fourth switch element, a fifth switch element, and a sixth switch element; a first freewheeling unit connected to the first switch element, the second switch element, and the second output terminal for providing a freewheeling path between the second output terminal and the first switch element and the second switch element; and a second freewheeling unit connected to the fourth switch element and the fifth switch element and the first output terminal for providing a freewheeling path between the first output terminal and the fourth switch element and the fifth switch element.



1. An inverter for converting a DC power into an AC power, comprising:
a switch circuit configured to receive a DC power and convert the DC power into an AC modulating voltage for output between a first output terminal and a second output terminal, the switch circuit comprising:
a first switch branch including a first switch element, a second switch element, and a third switch element connected in series with each other, wherein the second switch element and the third switch element are connected to the first output terminal;
a second switch branch connected in parallel with the first switch branch, and including a fourth switch element, a fifth switch element, and a sixth switch element connected in series with each other, wherein the fifth switch element and the sixth switch element are connected to the second output terminal;
a first freewheeling unit having one end connected between the first switch element and the second switch element, and the other end connected to the second output terminal; and
a second freewheeling unit having one end connected between the fourth switch element and the fifth switch element, and the other end connected to the first output terminal;
wherein the first switch element and the sixth switch element are turned on and off simultaneously and continuously and the second switch element is turned on during positive half-cycles, and the third switch element and the fourth switch element are turned on and off simultaneously and continuously and the fifth switch element is turned on during negative half-cycles.



2. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the third switch element, the fourth switch element, and the fifth switch element are turned off during positive half-cycles, and the first switch element, the second switch element, and the sixth switch element are turned off during negative half-cycles.


3. The inverter according to claim 1 further comprising a control unit connected to the first switch element, the second switch element, the third switch element, the fourth switch element, the fifth switch element, and the sixth switch element for controlling switching operations of the first switch element, the second switch element, the third switch element, the fourth switch element, the fifth switch element, and the sixth switch element.


4. The inverter converter according to claim 3 wherein the control unit comprises:
a first comparator having a positive input terminal for receiving a first sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal connected to a ground terminal, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the second switch element;
a second comparator having a positive input terminal for receiving the first sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving a triangular signal, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the first switch element and a control terminal of the sixth switch element;
a third comparator having a positive input terminal for receiving a second sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving the triangular signal, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the third switch element and a control terminal of the fourth switch element; and
a NOT gate having an input terminal connected to the output terminal of the first comparator and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the fifth switch element.



5. The inverter according to claim 4 wherein the first sinusoidal signal has a phase difference of 180 degree with the second sinusoidal signal.


6. The inverter according to claim 3 wherein the control unit comprises:
a rectifier for receiving a sinusoidal signal and rectifying the sinusoidal signal into a rectified sinusoidal signal;
a first comparator having a positive input terminal connected to the rectifier for receiving the rectified sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving a triangular signal;
a second comparator having a positive input terminal for receiving the sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal connected to a ground terminal, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the second switch element;
a third comparator having a positive input terminal connected to the rectifier for receiving the rectified sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving the triangular signal;
a NOT gate having an input terminal connected to the output terminal of the second comparator and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the fifth switch element;
a first AND gate having a first input terminal connected to an output terminal of the first comparator and a second input terminal connected to the output terminal of the second comparator, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the first switch element and a control terminal of the sixth switch element; and
a second AND gate having a first input terminal connected to the output terminal of the NOT gate and a second input terminal connected to an output terminal of the third comparator, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the third switch element and a control terminal of the fourth switch element.



7. The inverter according to claim 3 wherein the first freewheeling unit comprises a seventh switch element and the second freewheeling unit comprises an eighth switch element, and wherein the control unit is connected to the seventh switch element and the eighth switch element for controlling switching operations of the seventh switch element and the eighth switch element.


8. The inverter according to claim 7 wherein the control unit is configured to turn off the seventh switch element when the first switch element and the sixth switch element are turned on and turn on the seventh switch element when the first switch element and the sixth switch element are turned off and turn off the eighth switch element during positive half-cycles.


9. The inverter according to claim 8 wherein the control unit is configured to turn off the eighth switch element when the third switch element and the fourth switch element are turned on and turn on the eighth switch element when the third switch element and the fourth switch element are turned off and turn off the seventh switch element during negative half-cycles.


10. The inverter according to claim 7 wherein the seventh switch element and the eighth switch element are configured to operate with a high frequency with a pulse-width modulation fashion.


11. The inverter according to claim 7 wherein the control unit comprises:
a rectifier for receiving a sinusoidal signal and rectifying the sinusoidal signal into a rectified sinusoidal signal;
a first comparator having a positive input terminal connected to the rectifier for receiving the rectified sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving a triangular signal;
a second comparator having a positive input terminal for receiving the sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal connected to a ground terminal, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the second switch element;
a third comparator having a positive input terminal connected to the rectifier for receiving the rectified sinusoidal signal and a negative input terminal for receiving the triangular signal;
a first NOT gate having an input terminal connected to the output terminal of the second comparator and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the fifth switch element;
a first AND gate having a first input terminal connected to an output terminal of the first comparator and a second input terminal connected to the output terminal of the second comparator, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the first switch element and a control terminal of the sixth switch element;
a second AND gate having a first input terminal connected to the output terminal of the first NOT gate and a second input terminal connected to an output terminal of the third comparator, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the third switch element and a control terminal of the fourth switch element;
a second NOT gate having an input terminal connected to the output terminal of the first comparator;
a third NOT gate having an input terminal connected to the output terminal of the third comparator;
a third AND gate having a first input terminal connected to an output terminal of the second NOT gate and a second input terminal connected to the output terminal of the second comparator, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the seventh switch element; and
a fourth AND gate having a first input terminal connected to an output terminal of the third NOT gate and a second input terminal connected to an output terminal of the first NOT gate, and an output terminal connected to a control terminal of the eighth switch element.



12. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the first switch element, the second switch element, the third switch element, the fourth switch element, the fifth switch element, and the sixth switch element are configured to operate with a pulse-width modulation fashion.


13. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the first switch element, the third switch element, the fourth switch element, and the sixth switch element are configured to turn on or off with a high frequency, and the second switch element and the fifth switch element are configured to turn on or off with a low frequency,


14. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the inverter is a non-isolated inverter.


15. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the inverter is applicable to a solar grid-connected photovoltaic system.


16. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein a first relative voltage drop between the first output terminal of the switch circuit and a specific node within the inverter and a second relative voltage drop between the second output terminal of the switch circuit and the specific node are set to maintain their total average value at a constant value.


17. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the first freewheeling unit comprises a first freewheeling diode having a cathode connected between the first switch element and the second switch element and an anode connected to the second output terminal.


18. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the second freewheeling unit comprises a second freewheeling diode having a cathode connected between the fourth switch element and the fifth switch element and an anode connected to the first output terminal.


19. The inverter according to claim 1 further comprising:
an input filter connected to the switch circuit for receiving and filtering a DC input voltage and outputting a rectified DC voltage to the switch circuit; and
an output filter connected to the switch circuit for removing high-frequency components of the AC modulating voltage, thereby outputting an AC output voltage.



20. The inverter according to claim 1 wherein the first freewheeling unit is configured to provide a freewheeling path between the second output terminal switch element and the first switch element and the second switch element, and the second freewheeling unit is configured to provide another freewheeling path between the first output terminal and the fourth switch element and the fifth switch element. 

