
An integral mounting and shipping support device. The device includes a mounting structure and a shipping support structure. The shipping support structure is configured to grip an object to be shipped. The device also includes a first stacking structure and a second stacking structure. The first stacking structure of a first mounting and shipping support device is configured to couple with the second stacking structure of a second mounting and shipping support device.



1. An integral mounting and shipping support device, comprising:
a mounting structure;
a shipping support structure, the shipping support structure configured to grip an object to be shipped;
a first stacking structure; and
a second stacking structure;
wherein the first stacking structure of a first mounting and shipping support device is configured to couple with the second stacking structure of a second mounting and shipping support device.



2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a central supporting portion of the device having a first side, a second side opposite to the first side, a third side adjacent to the second side, and a fourth side opposite to the third side.


3. The device of claim 2, wherein:
the first stacking structure is integrally located on the first side of the central supporting portion of the device;
the second stacking structure is integrally located on the second side of the central supporting portion of the device;
the mounting structure is integrally located on the second or on the third side of the central supporting portion of the device; and
the shipping support structure is integrally located on the fourth side of the central supporting portion of the device.



4. The device of claim 1, wherein the second stacking structure and the mounting structure comprise the same one or more protrusions or recesses in the second side of the central supporting portion of the device.


5. The device of claim 1, wherein the shipping support structure comprises a clip.


6. The device of claim 5, wherein the shipping support structure is configured to support a solar panel and wherein the mounting structure is configured to mount the solar panel to a solar panel rack.


7. The device of claim 1, wherein one of the respective first stacking structure and the second stacking structure is a protrusion and the other is a depression.


8. The device of claim 1, wherein the mounting structure is a protrusion or a depression.


9. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a substantially “U” shaped portion and the first and second stacking structures are located in an arm of the “U” shaped portion.


10. The device of claim 9, wherein the device further comprises a flange and successive flanges in a stack of devices form the shipping support structure comprising a recess which is configured to receive the object.


11. The device of claim 10, further comprising a flexible gasket located in the recess.


12. The device of claim 9, wherein the “U” shaped portion in successive devices in a stack of devices form a channel that comprises the mounting structure.


13. The device of claim 1, wherein the device further comprises a hole configured to receive a fastener adapted to secure the device to a frame.


14. A solar panel device comprising a solar panel attached to at least one mounting and shipping support device, wherein the at least one mounting and shipping support device comprises:
a shipping support structure attached to the solar panel;
a mounting structure adapted to mount to a solar panel rack;
a first stacking structure located on a first side of the mounting and shipping support device; and
a second stacking structure located on an opposite second side of the mounting and shipping support device.



15. The solar panel device of claim 14, wherein the solar panel device comprises at least 4 mounting and shipping support devices attached to at least two sides of the solar panel by a respective shipping support structure which comprises a clip.


16. The solar panel device of claim 14, wherein the first stacking structure is a protrusion and the second stacking structure is a depression configured to receive the protrusion.


17. The solar panel device of claim 16, wherein:
the first stacking structure comprises: (i) a plurality of protrusions; or (ii) at least one protrusion and at least one depression; and
the second stacking structure comprises: (i) a plurality of depressions configured to receive the plurality of protrusions of the first stacking structure; or (ii) at least one depression configured to receive the at least one protrusion of the first stacking structure and at least one protrusion configured to be received in the at least one depression of the first stacking structure.



18. The device of claim 14, wherein:
the mounting structure is a protrusion or a depression; and
the at least one mounting and shipping support device further comprises a central supporting portion of the device having a first side, a second side opposite to the first side, a third side adjacent to the second side, and a fourth side opposite to the third side.



19. The device of claim 18, wherein:
the first stacking structure is integrally located on the first side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device;
the second stacking structure is integrally located on the second side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device;
the mounting structure is integrally located on the second or on the third side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device; and
the shipping support structure is integrally located on the fourth side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device.



20. The device of claim 18, wherein the second stacking structure and the mounting structure comprise the same one or more protrusions or recesses in the second side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device.


21. A stack comprising a plurality of the solar panel devices of claim 9, wherein each solar panel in the stack is attached to at least one respective mounting and shipping support device, and a first stacking structure of each mounting and shipping support device is coupled to a second stacking structure of a mounting and shipping support device attached to an adjacent solar panel in the stack.


22. The stack of claim 21, further comprising a pallet, the pallet comprising at least one first or second stacking structure coupled to the first or second stacking structure of the at least one mounting and shipping support device attached to the lowest solar panel in the stack.


23. A method, comprising:
providing a plurality of solar panels, each of the plurality of solar panels is attached to one or more mounting and shipping support devices, each shipping support comprising:
a mounting structure;
a shipping support structure, the shipping support structure attached to one of the plurality of the solar panels;
a first stacking structure; and
a second stacking structure; and

stacking the plurality of solar panels by coupling the one or more mounting and shipping support devices of each of the plurality of solar panels with the one or more mounting and shipping support devices of an adjacent one of the plurality of solar panels to form a stack of solar panels.



24. The method of claim 23, further comprising coupling the one or more mounting and shipping support devices of a bottom solar panel in the stack to a pallet.


25. The method of claim 24, further comprising separating the stack of solar panels, and coupling at least a first solar panel of the plurality of solar panels to a rack by coupling the mounting structure of the one or more support devices attached to the first solar panel to the rack.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein:
the shipping support structure is attached to the first solar panel by friction;
the mounting structure comprises a mounting protrusion or a mounting depression;
the rack comprises a rack depression or a rack protrusion; and
coupling the first solar panel to the rack comprises sliding the mounting or rack protrusion into the mounting or rack depression.



27. The method of claim 26, further comprising bolting the shipping support structure to the first solar panel after separating the stack.


28. A method, comprising:
providing a stack of solar panels comprising a plurality of solar panels coupled to each other using one or more mounting and shipping support devices attached to each of the plurality of solar panels, wherein each mounting and shipping support device comprises:
a mounting structure;
a shipping support structure, the shipping support structure attached to one of the plurality of the solar panels;
a first stacking structure; and
a second stacking structure;

separating the stack of solar panels; and
coupling at least a first solar panel of the plurality of solar panels to a rack by coupling the mounting structure of the one or more support devices attached to the first solar panel to the rack.



29. The method of claim 28, wherein:
the shipping support structure is attached to the first solar panel by friction;
the mounting structure comprises a mounting protrusion or a mounting depression;
the rack comprises a rack depression or a rack protrusion; and
coupling the first solar panel to the rack comprises sliding the mounting or rack protrusion into the mounting or rack depression.



30. The method of claim 29, further comprising bolting the shipping support structure to the first solar panel after separating the stack.


31. The method of claim 28, wherein:
each mounting and shipping support device further comprises a central supporting portion of the device having a first side, a second side opposite to the first side, a third side adjacent to the second side, and a fourth side opposite to the third side;
the first stacking structure is integrally located on the first side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device;
the second stacking structure is integrally located on the second side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device;
the mounting structure is integrally located on the second or on the third side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device; and
the shipping support structure is integrally located on the fourth side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device.



32. The method of claim 28, wherein the second stacking structure and the mounting structure comprise the same one or more protrusions or recesses in the second side of the central supporting portion of the at least one mounting and shipping support device.


33. The method of claim 30, wherein each solar panel in the stack is attached to at least one respective mounting and shipping support device, and a first stacking structure of each mounting and shipping support device is coupled to a second stacking structure of a mounting and shipping support device attached to an adjacent solar panel in the stack.

