
A photovoltaic (“PV”) module mounting system that includes a base having a platform with a plurality of supports extending upwardly therefrom. The PV module mounting system is secured to a support structure, such as a roof, and a mounting apparatus is adapted to fixedly secure a PV module to the base. A plurality of PV module mounting systems can be configured for the installation of an array of PV modules.



1. A photovoltaic (“PV”) module mounting system comprising:
a first base including a platform having a plurality of supports, each support extending upwardly from the platform to a distal end; and
a plurality of mounting apparatus adapted to fixedly secure a PV module to the plurality of supports.



2. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 1, further comprising a second base formed similarly to the first base, the first and second bases including complementary interlocking structures for aligning the first base with respect to the second base.


3. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 1, wherein the platform comprises a rectangular frame having first and second ends and first and second sides.


4. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 3, wherein the rectangular frame has two pairs of diagonally opposed corners and first and second diagonal members extending therebetween.


5. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 3, wherein the rectangular frame comprises four elongate members connected at four corners.


6. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 5, wherein the four elongate members have a plurality of openings therethrough, which are adapted to receive fastening devices to secure the base to a support structure.


7. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 3, wherein the platform has first and second pairs of supports located at the first and second ends of the frame, respectively.


8. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 7, wherein the first and second pairs of supports have first and second heights, respectively, wherein each height is equal to the distance from the platform to the distal end of the support, and wherein the height of the first pair of supports is greater than the height of the second pair of supports.


9. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 3, wherein the complementary interlocking structures are located on the first and second sides and the first and second ends of the rectangular frame.


10. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 1, wherein each of the supports has an aperture in the distal end, and wherein the locations of the apertures corresponds to the locations of mounting apertures in the PV module.


11. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 1, wherein the plurality of supports can be adjustably positioned at a plurality of locations on the platform.


12. A PV module mounting system comprising:
a plurality of PV modules; and
a plurality of mounting bases, each mounting base supporting one of the plurality of PV modules, each of the mounting bases comprising a plurality of supports extending upwardly from the base to a distal end and adapted to support the PV module, each of the bases being adapted to be secured to a support structure, and the plurality of supports spacing the PV module from the support structure.



13. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of bases includes complementary interlocking structures that cooperate to align adjacent bases with each other.


14. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 13, wherein each of the mounting bases is similarly formed.


15. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 13, wherein each mounting base further comprises a rectangular frame having first and second ends and first and second sides, and wherein the complementary interlocking structures are located on the first and second ends and the first and second sides of the rectangular frame.


16. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 15, wherein the rectangular frame has two pairs of diagonally opposed corners and first and second diagonal members extending therebetween.


17. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 15, wherein the rectangular frame comprises four elongate members connected at four corners.


18. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 17, wherein the four elongate members have a plurality of openings, which are adapted to receive fastening devices to secure the base to the support structure.


19. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 15, wherein each base has first and second pairs of supports located at the first and second ends of the frame, respectively.


20. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 19, wherein the first and second pairs of supports have first and second heights, respectively, wherein each height is equal to the distance from the base to the distal end, and wherein the height of the first pair of supports is greater than the height of the second pair of supports.


21. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 12, wherein each of the supports has an aperture in the distal end, and wherein the locations of the apertures corresponds to the locations of mounting apertures in the PV module.


22. The PV module mounting system as defined in claim 12, wherein the plurality of supports can be adjustably positioned at a plurality of locations on each of the mounting bases.

