
A photovoltaic panel racking system with integrated grounding bars integrated with an extruded integrated rail. The integrated grounding bar enables grounding of photovoltaic panels to a racking system without the use of additional parts or tools. When photovoltaic panels are installed onto an integrated rail, the grounding bars perforate the anodized coating of the frame of the photovoltaic panels to make metal to metal contacts. The grounding bar may be attached to the underside of solar panel frames. Further, an integrated grounding bar rail reduces the number of roof penetration connections necessary for safe grounding of a photovoltaic system. In a ballast mounted photovoltaic panel system, ballast pans may be used to connect the integrated rails between adjacent rows of photovoltaic panels, thereby further reducing the number of grounding points needed to ground the system.



1. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching at least one photovoltaic panel to at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one mounting rail is configured with multiple integrated grounding bars;
tightening the at least one photovoltaic panel to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the multiple integrated grounding bars perforate an anodized coating of the at least one photovoltaic panel; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one mounting rail configured with multiple integrated grounding bars comprises at least one mounting rail configured with at least two integrated grounding bars.


3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one mounting rail configured with multiple integrated grounding bars comprises at least one mounting rail configured with at least three integrated grounding bars.


4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one mounting rail configured with multiple integrated grounding bars comprises at least one mounting rail configured with at least four integrated grounding bars.


5. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching a first set of photovoltaic panels to a first mounting rail having multiple grounding bars;
attaching a second set of photovoltaic panels to a second mounting rail having multiple grounding bars;
tightening the first and second sets of photovoltaic panels to the first and second mounting rails with mounting clips, wherein the multiple grounding bars perforate anodized coatings of the photovoltaic panels;
securing the photovoltaic system to a surface using a ballast pan, wherein the ballast pan is configured to hold a plurality of ballast blocks, and wherein the ballast pan comprises a first substantially vertical portion and a second substantially vertical portion;
attaching the first mounting rail to the first substantially vertical portion; and
attaching the second mounting rail to the second substantially vertical portion.



6. The method of claim 5, wherein the multiple grounding bars comprises at least two grounding bars.


7. The method of claim 5, wherein the multiple grounding bars comprises three grounding bars.


8. The method of claim 5, wherein the multiple grounding bars comprises four grounding bars.


9. A grounding system for photovoltaic panels, the photovoltaic panels having anodized frame surfaces, comprising:
a mounting rail comprising multiple integrated grounding bars; and
mounting clips configured to tighten the photovoltaic panels to the mounting rail,
wherein the multiple integrated grounding bars perforate anodized aluminum frame surfaces of the photovoltaic panels.



10. The grounding system of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least two integrated grounding bars.


11. The grounding system of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least three integrated grounding bars.


12. The grounding system of claim 9, wherein the mounting rail comprises at least four integrated grounding bars.


13. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
attaching at least one photovoltaic panel frame to at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one photovoltaic panel frame is configured with a plurality of integrated grounding bars;
tightening the photovoltaic panel frame to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the plurality of integrated grounding bars perforate a surface of the mounting rail; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail.



14. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of integrated grounding bars comprises at least two integrated grounding bars.


15. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of integrated grounding bars comprises at least three integrated grounding bars.


16. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of integrated grounding bars comprises at least four integrated grounding bars.


17. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
providing at least one mounting rail created in an initial manufacturing process;
attaching multiple grounding bars to the at least one mounting rail after the initial manufacturing process;
attaching at least one photovoltaic panel to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one mounting rail is configured with the attached multiple grounding bars;
tightening the at least one photovoltaic panel to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the multiple integrated grounding bars perforate an anodized coating of the at least one photovoltaic panel; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail.



18. A method of grounding a photovoltaic system, comprising:
providing at least one photovoltaic panel frame created in an initial manufacturing process;
attaching multiple grounding bars to the at least one photovoltaic panel frame after the initial manufacturing process;
attaching at the least one photovoltaic panel frame to at least one mounting rail, wherein the at least one photovoltaic panel frame is configured with the attached multiple grounding bars;
tightening the photovoltaic panel frame to the at least one mounting rail with mounting clips, wherein the attached multiple grounding bars perforate a surface of the mounting rail; and
connecting a grounding wire to the at least one mounting rail, wherein the grounding wire connects to an end of each mounting rail. 


