
A fastening system is provided. In another aspect, a hook fastens a photovoltaic panel assembly to a building roof. Another aspect employs catches that removeably attach an auxiliary component, such as a solar panel frame, to a building in hinge and slide motions for engagement of the catches. A method of installing a fastening system is additionally provided.



1. A photovoltaic panel fastening system comprising a catch including a base wall and at least two substantially C-shaped hooks upstanding from the base wall with an openly accessible access slot being defined by each of the hooks, the at least two hooks opposing toward each other, and each of the hooks being configured to receive and secure a portion of a photovoltaic panel frame.


2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a standing seam roof clamp attached to the catch.


3. The system of claim 2, wherein the catch is slidably adjustable relative to the roof clamp in at least one condition.


4. The system of claim 2, wherein the catch is pre-assembled to the roof clamp prior to mounting of the roof clamp to a building roof, and all components of the roof clamp are also entirely pre-assembled prior to mounting to the building roof.


5. The system of claim 1, wherein the catch includes four of the hooks, one adjacent each upper corner of the catch.


6. The system of claim 1, wherein the catch further comprises a pointed barb located adjacent at least one of the hooks, the barb gouging into the frame when attached.


7. The system of claim 1, wherein the catch further comprises side walls upstanding from the base wall which is substantially flat, and the catch having a substantially U-end view shape.


8. The system of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic panel frame includes an L-shaped portion with a distal end of a bottom of the frame being snugly received within the slot of at least one of the hooks, and the slot has a substantially triangular shape.


9. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
another catch including a base wall and hooks upstanding from the base wall; and
a second photovoltaic panel frame, the frames being mounted to opposite peripheral sides of a photovoltaic panel;
one of the frames initially engaging at least one of the hooks of at least a first of the catches and then being rotated to a position against at least a second of the catches whereafter the second catch is laterally slid relative to the first catch and photovoltaic panel so as to engage the second frame with at least one of the hooks of the second catch, the second catch subsequently being removably secured.



10. A photovoltaic panel fastening system comprising:
a removeable, roof seam clamp;
a bracket comprising a base wall and upstanding side hooks overhanging photovoltaic panel frame-engaging slots; and
an elongated shaft and fastener allowing pre-assembled adjustment of the bracket relative to the clamp in one condition and firmly securing the bracket to the clamp in another condition while also actuating roof seam-compression of the clamp.



11. The system of claim 10, wherein the bracket includes four of the hooks, one adjacent each upper corner of the bracket.


12. The system of claim 10, wherein the bracket further comprises a pointed barb located adjacent at least one of the hooks, the barb gouging into the frame when attached.


13. The system of claim 10, wherein the bracket further comprises side walls upstanding from the base wall which is substantially flat, and the member having a substantially U-end view shape.


14. The system of claim 10, wherein the photovoltaic panel frame includes an L-shaped portion with a distal end of a bottom of the frame being snugly received within at least one of the slots, and at least one of the slots has a substantially triangular shape.


15. The system of claim 10, wherein the bracket is a single piece stamped metal sheet and the fastener is a threaded nut, with the bracket located between the nut and the clamp.


16. A photovoltaic panel fastening system comprising:
a photovoltaic panel assembly including at least one frame having a first leg adjacent one side of the assembly and at least a second leg adjacent an opposite side of the assembly;
a first building clamp including an opening within which a fastener is moveable;
at least a second building clamp including an opening within which a fastener is movable;
a first bracket comprising a base wall and a hook, the first bracket being attached to the first clamp; and
at least a second bracket comprising a base wall and a hook, the second bracket being attached to the second clamp and being spaced apart from the first clamp;
the hook of the first bracket engaging the first leg of the photovoltaic panel assembly and allowing the photovoltaic panel assembly to be subsequently pivoted toward the second bracket, the first leg being trapped between the hook and the underlying base wall of the first bracket; and
the second bracket being laterally adjustable relative to the second clamp to engage the hook of the second bracket with the second leg of the photovoltaic panel assembly.



17. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the brackets includes at least two hooks having slots openly accessible facing each other in an opposing manner.


18. The system of claim 17, wherein the second bracket further comprising side walls upturned from the base wall which is substantially flat, the side walls having a reduced height relative to the hooks.


19. The system of claim 16, wherein the fastener of each of the building clamps is a cammed wedge which is secured to the building by pulling on a shaft which also assists in securing the associated bracket to the clamp.


20. The system of claim 16, wherein the second bracket further comprises:
at least four of the hooks located adjacent upper corners of the second bracket;
at least one aperture in the base wall through which a threaded shaft extends from the second clamp;
the base wall is elongated in an up-hill direction when secured to the building by the second clamp; and
the second bracket has substantially U-shaped and open ends.



21-26. (canceled)


27. The system of claim 1, wherein the slots are spaced apart from each other and access openings of the slots face toward each other, and the hooks are sheet metal.


28. The system of claim 10, wherein the slots are spaced apart from each other and access openings of the slots face toward each other, and the hooks are sheet metal.


29. A photovoltaic panel fastening system comprising a metallic bracket including a base wall and at least two hooks upstanding from the base wall with an openly accessible access slot being defined by each of the hooks, the at least two hooks opposing toward each other, and each of the hooks being configured to receive and secure a portion of a photovoltaic panel frame between a section of the hook overhanging the base wall with the slot therebetween, and an access opening of a first of the slots being spaced apart from and facing toward an access opening of a second of the slots.


30. The system of claim 29, further comprising a standing seam roof clamp attached to the bracket.


31. The system of claim 29, wherein the bracket includes four of the hooks, one adjacent each upper corner of the bracket.


32. The system of claim 29, wherein the bracket further comprises a pointed barb located adjacent at least one of the hooks, the barb gouging into the frame when attached.


33. The system of claim 29, wherein the photovoltaic panel frame includes an L-shaped portion with a distal end of a bottom of the frame being snugly received within the slot of at least one of the hooks, and the slot has a substantially triangular shape.

