
A fire resistant PV shingle assembly includes a PV assembly, including PV body, a fire shield and a connection member connecting the fire shield below the PV body, and a support and inter-engagement assembly. The support and inter-engagement assembly is mounted to the PV assembly and comprises a vertical support element, supporting the PV assembly above a support surface, an upper interlock element, positioned towards the upper PV edge, and a lower interlock element, positioned towards the lower PV edge. The upper interlock element of one PV shingle assembly is inter-engageable with the lower interlock element of an adjacent PV shingle assembly. In some embodiments the PV shingle assembly may comprise a ventilation path below the PV body. The PV body may be slidably mounted to the connection member to facilitate removal of the PV body.



1. A fire photovoltaic assembly configured for mounting to a support surface comprising:
at least a first photovoltaic module supported above a support surface at an inclined angle, the first photovoltaic module having an upper surface, a lower surface, an upper edge, a lower edge and side PV edges; and
a fire shield member having a central portion disposed below and spaced from a lowed surface of the first photovoltaic module, the fire shield member having an upper edge, a lower edge, and side edges engaging the upper edge, lower edge, and side edges of the photovoltaic module so as to form a substantially enclosed volume of space between the upper surface of the fire shield and the lower surface of the photovoltaic module.



2. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the fire shield member comprises at least a first lower ventilation hole disposed toward the lower edge of the fire shield and at least a first lower ventilation hole disposed toward the upper edge of the fire shield, so as to allow a flow of air to flow into the substantially enclosed volume of space through the first lower ventilation hole and out of the substantially enclosed volume of space through the first upper hole.


3. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 2, wherein the fire shield member further comprises at least a second lower ventilation hole disposed toward the lower edge of the fire shield member and a protrusion extending upwardly from the upper surface of the fire shield member and longitudinally between the lower edge of the fire shield member in the upper edge of the fire shield member, the at least one protrusion being disposed between the first and second lower ventilation holes.


4. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the fire shield member further comprises at least a first longitudinal protrusion, protruding upwardly from the upper surface of the fire shield toward the lower surface of the photovoltaic module, the protrusion extending longitudinally between the lower edge of the fire shield member and the upper edge of the fire shield member.


5. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 4, wherein the first longitudinal protrusion comprises a support member disposed below the fire shield member and extending through an aperture formed in the fire shield member.


6. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 4, wherein the fire shield member further comprises at least a second longitudinal protrusion extending generally parallel to the first longitudinal protrusion, the first lower ventilation hole being disposed between the first and second longitudinal protrusion.


7. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 4, wherein the first longitudinal protrusion is based from the lower edge of the fire shield member and a space from the upper edge of the fire shield member.


8. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 4, wherein the first longitudinal protrusion extends generally parallel to the side edges of the fire shield member.


9. The photovoltaic assembly according to claim 4, wherein the side edges of the fire shield member wrap around the side edges of the photovoltaic module, respectively.


10. A photovoltaic array mounted to an inclined support surface, comprising:
at least a first photovoltaic module having a lower surface, an upper edge, a lower edge, and side edges;
at least a first fire shield member connected to and disposed below the first photovoltaic module, the first fire shield member having an upper edge, lower edge, and side edges connected to the upper edge, lower edge, and side edges of the first photovoltaic module, the first fire shield member having a central portion with an upper surface disposed below the lower surface of the first photovoltaic module thereby defining a first substantially enclosed volume of space between the first photovoltaic module and the first fire shield member;
at least a second photovoltaic module having a lower service, upper edge, lower edge, and side edges; the second floor will take module being disposed adjacent to the first photovoltaic module such that a side edge of the second photovoltaic module is juxtaposed to a side edge of the first photovoltaic module;
at least a second fire shield member connected to a disposed below the second photovoltaic module, the second fire shield member having an upper edge, lower edge, and side edges connected to the upper edge, lower edge, and side edges of the second photovoltaic modules, the second fire shield member having a central portion of an upper surface disposed below the lower surface of the second photovoltaic module, thereby defining a second substantially enclosed volume of space between the second photovoltaic module and the second fire shield member;
wherein each of the first and second fire shield members comprise at least a first lower ventilation hole formed in the central portion and disposed toward the lower edge of each of the first and second fire shield members and at least a first upper ventilation hole formed in the central portion disposed toward the upper edge of each of the first and second fire shield members, wherein the first and second substantially enclosed volumes of space are separate from each other.



11. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10, wherein each of the first and second fire shield members include at least a first protruding portion extending longitudinally between the lower edges and the upper edges of the respective first and second fire shield members.


12. The photovoltaic array according to claim 11, wherein each of the first and second fire shield members include at least a second lower ventilation hole, each of the first protruding portions being disposed between the respective first and second lower ventilation holes.


13. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10 wherein the first protruding portion comprises an aperture formed the central portion of each of the first and second fire shield members and a support member disposed below the fire shield member and extending upwardly through the aperture.


14. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10, wherein the first lower ventilation hole and the first upper ventilation hole are configured to allow a restricted flow of air to flow into the substantially enclosed volume of space through the lower ventilation hole and out of the substantially enclosed volume of space through the upper ventilation hole.


15. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10, wherein each of the first and second fire shield members comprise at least first and second protruding portions, with at least one lower ventilation hole disposed directly between the first and second protruding portions.


16. The photovoltaic array according to claim 15, wherein each of the first and second fire shield members comprise at least three lower ventilation holes, at least one ventilation hole being disposed between the first and second protruding portions, the other to lower ventilation holes being disposed on the opposite sides of both of the first and second protruding portions.


17. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10, wherein each of the first and second fire shield members include at least a second upper ventilation hole.


18. The photovoltaic array according to claim 10, wherein each of the first and second substantially enclosed volumes of space comprise a plenum.


19. The photovoltaic array of courting to claim 11, wherein the first protruding portion provides additional resistance against deflection of the central portion of the fire shield member. 

