
A novel PV module carrier and methods of use provide protection for PV modules during transportation, field handling, and assembly with racking systems. The carrier contains elements of a racking system to allow for quicker installation in the field. The PV module carrier reduces manufacturing costs by eliminating the need for frame elements, while reducing field installation time and labor cost for system installation.



1. An apparatus for transporting at least one photovoltaic module comprising:
a carrier base;
a plurality of nesting guides formed on a first and second edge of the carrier base; and
a plurality of location guides formed on the carrier base and aligned generally parallel to an edge of the carrier base;
wherein the nesting guides and location guides form at least one opening on the carrier base for receiving a photovoltaic module.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising two handling slots formed at a first end of the carrier base, and a two handlings slots formed at a second end of the carrier base.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising two alignment guide openings at the first end of the carrier base, and a two alignment guide openings formed at a second end of the carrier base.


4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising at least one strap alignment slot on a first edge of the carrier base, and at least one complementary strap alignment slot on a second edge of the carrier base.


5. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a plurality of mounting holes formed in the carrier base.


6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising at least one photovoltaic module positioned in the at least one opening.


7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a plurality of module mounting clips attached to the at least one photovoltaic module.


8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein each module mounting clip further comprises at least one alignment tab.


9. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising an alignment plug in each alignment guide opening.


10. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising at least one additional structural mounting element attached to the at least one photovoltaic module.


11. A photovoltaic module carrier assembly comprising:
a carrier base;
a plurality of nesting guides formed on a first and second edge of the carrier base;
a plurality of location guides formed on the carrier base and aligned generally parallel to an edge of the carrier base; wherein the nesting guides and location guides form at least two openings on the carrier base for receiving photovoltaic modules;
a photovoltaic module positioned in each opening on the carrier base;
a plurality of mounting structure elements attached to the photovoltaic modules; and
a plurality of fasteners attaching the modules to the carrier base.



12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the mounting structure elements comprise module mounting clips.


13. The assembly of claim 11, further comprising two handling slots formed at a first end of the carrier base, and a two handlings slots formed at a second end of the carrier base.


14. The assembly of claim 12, further comprising two alignment guide openings at the first end of the carrier base, and a two alignment guide openings formed at a second end of the carrier base.


15. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of strap alignment slots on a first edge of the carrier base, and a plurality of complementary strap alignment slots on a second edge of the carrier base.


16. The assembly of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of mounting holes formed in the carrier base.


17. The assembly of claim 16, wherein each module mounting clip further comprises at least one alignment tab.


18. The assembly of claim 17, further comprising an alignment plug in each alignment guide opening.


19. The assembly of claim 18, further comprising at least one additional structural mounting element attached to each photovoltaic module.


20. A method for transporting photovoltaic modules comprising:
placing a plurality of modules on a carrier, the carrier including alignment guides;
attaching a plurality of photovoltaic modules to the carrier; and
attaching a plurality of mounting structure elements to the plurality of modules.



21. The method of claim 20 further comprising stacking multiple carriers together to form a stack of photovoltaic module carriers.


22. The method of claim 21, further comprising strapping the stack of module carriers together for transport.


23. A method of installing photovoltaic modules comprising:
placing a photovoltaic module carrier on a mounting structure;
detaching the carrier from at least one module;
removing the module carrier; and
attaching the at least one module to the mounting structure.



24. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of placing comprises aligning alignment elements on the carrier and the mounting structure, in order to align the at least one module to mounting elements on the mounting structure. 

