
A photovoltaic generation system using grid-connected parallel inverters comprises a plurality of photovoltaic generation devices connected in parallel with each other, and a transformer configured to transform and transfer output voltages of the photovoltaic generation devices to a grid, wherein the photovoltaic generation device includes: a photovoltaic module configured to convert photovoltaic energy into DC electrical energy; an inverter configured to convert the DC electrical energy outputted from the photovoltaic module into AC electrical energy; an LC filter configured to remove noise included in the AC electrical energy which is outputted from the inverter; and a Y-connected capacitor group which is connected between one terminal of a reactor in the LC filter and one terminal of the photovoltaic module and is configured to reduce stray current.



1. A photovoltaic generation system using grid-connected parallel inverters, the photovoltaic generation system comprising: a plurality of photovoltaic generation devices connected in parallel with each other; and a transformer configured to transform and transfer output voltages of the photovoltaic generation devices to a grid,
wherein the photovoltaic generation device comprises:
a photovoltaic module configured to convert photovoltaic energy into DC electrical energy;
an inverter configured to convert the DC electrical energy outputted from the photovoltaic module into AC electrical energy;
an LC filter configured to remove noise included in the AC electrical energy which is outputted from the inverter; and
a Y-connected capacitor group which is connected between one terminal of a reactor in the LC filter and one terminal of the photovoltaic module and is configured to reduce stray current.



2. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 1, wherein the LC filter further comprises a delta-connected capacitor group configured to filter noise at an output terminal of the inverter.


3. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 1, wherein a stray impedance value by a stray capacitance component between the photovoltaic module and a ground is larger than an impedance value by the Y-connected capacitor group.


4. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 3, wherein a frequency forming an impedance by the Y-connected capacitor group is a switching frequency of the inverter.


5. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 1, wherein stray current flowing between the photovoltaic module and a ground is dependent on a capacitance value of the Y-connected capacitor group and a switching frequency of the inverter.


6. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 1, wherein a resonance frequency by the LC filter and the Y-connected capacitor group is different from a switching frequency of the inverter.


7. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 1, wherein the transformer is any one of a double wiring transformer and a multi-wiring transformer.


8. A photovoltaic generation system using grid-connected parallel inverters, the photovoltaic generation system comprising:
a photovoltaic module configured to convert photovoltaic energy into DC electrical energy;
an inverter configured to convert the DC electrical energy outputted from the photovoltaic module into AC electrical energy;
an LC filter configured to remove noise included in the AC electrical energy which is outputted from the inverter;
a Y-connected capacitor group which is connected between one terminal of a reactor in the LC filter and one terminal of the photovoltaic module and is configured to reduce stray current; and
an isolation transformer configured to block the output of a DC portion outputted from the LC filter.



9. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 8, wherein stray current flowing between the photovoltaic module and a ground is determined depending on a capacitance value of the Y-connected capacitor group and a switching frequency of the inverter.


10. The photovoltaic generation system according to claim 8, wherein the isolation transformer is any one of a double wiring transformer and a multi-wiring transformer. 

