
A power converter including a detection apparatus and method for detecting an islanding condition based on measurements of one or more currents and voltages within the power converter provided to a current regulator to generate a signal that is provided in a positive feedback loop and is indicative of an islanding condition.



1. A converter system for a photovoltaic array comprising:
at least one power source providing direct current (DC) power;
at least one current sensor for measuring at least one alternating current (AC) current signal;
at least one voltage sensor for measuring a DC voltage signal and an AC voltage signal;
an inverter converting the DC power to alternating current (AC) power based on an inverter control signal; and,
an inverter controller providing the inverter control signal, the inverter controller comprising:
a current regulator outputting at least one component signal based in part on the first DC voltage signal, the at least one AC current signal, and the first AC voltage signal,
wherein one or more of the at least one component signal is provided in a positive feedback loop and is indicative of an islanding condition, resulting in the inverter control signal controlling the power output of the inverter when an islanding condition exists.



2. The converter system of claim 1, further comprising a filter in the positive feedback loop of the one or more of the at least one component signal.


3. The converter system of claim 1, further comprising a phase lock loop (PLL) for determining the phase angle of one of the at least one AC current signal and the AC voltage signal.


4. The converter system of claim 3, further comprising at least one demodulator for demodulating at least one AC current signal and the AC voltage signal and at least one rotator for rotating at least one signal,
wherein the phase angle is provided to the at least one demodulator and the at least one rotator.



5. The converter system of claim 1, wherein the system further receives a nominal voltage current reactive (VAR) reference signal and the component signal is further based in part on the nominal VAR reference signal.


6. The converter system of claim 1, further comprising a magnitude calculator for calculating the magnitude of the AC voltage.


7. An inverter controller comprising:
at least one input terminal receiving a direct current (DC) voltage signal, at least one alternating current (AC) current signal, and an AC voltage signal;
a current regulator outputting at least one component signal based in part on the DC voltage signal, the at least one AC current signal, and the AC voltage signal; and,
wherein one or more of the at least one component signal is provided as feedback to change either or both magnitude and frequency of the AC voltage signal, wherein the change is above a corresponding predetermined threshold when an islanding condition exists.



8. The inverter control of claim 7, further comprising a modulator outputting an inverter control signal to control the first AC current signal based on at least the component signal.


9. The inverter control of claim 8, wherein the inverter control signal controls the inverter to output substantially no output power when the change in one of the magnitude and frequency of the AC voltage is above the corresponding predetermined threshold.


10. The inverter control of claim 7, further comprising a filter in a positive feedback loop of the one or more of the at least one component signal.


11. The inverter control of claim 7, further comprising a phase lock loop (PLL) for determining the phase angle of the AC voltage signal.


12. The inverter control of claim 11, further comprising at least one demodulator for demodulating at least one of the signals at the at least one input terminal and at least one rotator for rotating at least one signal,
wherein the phase angle of the AC voltage signal is provided to the at least one demodulator and the at least one rotator.



13. The inverter control of claim 7, wherein the inverter control further receives a nominal voltage current reactive (VAR) reference signal and the at least one component signal is further based in part on the nominal VAR reference signal.


14. The inverter control of claim 7, further comprising a magnitude calculator for calculating the magnitude of the AC voltage.


15. A method of controlling an inverter comprising:
measuring a direct current (DC) voltage signal, at least one alternating current (AC) current signal, and an AC voltage signal;
receiving a nominal VAR reference signal and a DC voltage reference signal;
determining at least one component signal based on the DC voltage signal, the at least one AC current signal, the AC voltage signal, the nominal VAR signal, and the DC voltage reference signal; and,
determining an inverter control signal based at least in part on the component signal,
wherein the at least one component signal is indicative of an islanding condition.



16. The method of claim 15, further comprising controlling the power output from the inverter when an islanding condition exists.


17. The method of claim 15, further providing at least one current sensor and at least one voltage sensor to measure the DC voltage signal, the at least one AC current signal, and the first AC voltage signal.


18. The method of claim 15, wherein one or more of the at least one component signal is provided in a positive feedback loop.


19. The method of claim 18, further providing a filter in the positive feedback loop of the one or more of the at least one component signal.


20. The method of claim 15, further providing a phase lock loop (PLL) for providing a phase angle of one of the at least one AC current signal, and the AC voltage signal and determining the inverter control signal based partly on the phase angle. 

