
A power conversion system for providing power to an electrical grid is described. The power conversion system includes a power converter coupled to a photovoltaic (PV) array and configured to control a PV array voltage. The power conversion system also includes a system controller communicatively coupled to the power converter and configured to select from a first reduced power operating point and a second reduced power operating point when a power available from the PV array is greater than a rated output power of the power conversion system.



1. A power conversion system for providing power to an electrical grid comprising:
a power converter coupled to a photovoltaic (PV) array and configured to control a PV array voltage; and
a system controller communicatively coupled to said power converter and configured to select from a first reduced power operating point and a second reduced power operating point when a power available from the PV array is greater than a rated output power of said power conversion system.



2. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said power converter comprises a boost converter and an inverter coupled to said boost converter by a direct current (DC) bus, said inverter configured to regulate a DC bus voltage.


3. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said system controller is configured to provide a reduced power operating point signal corresponding to the selected reduced power operating point to said power converter, which in response to the reduced power operating point signal is configured to control the PV array voltage.


4. A system in accordance with claim 3, wherein said power converter is configured to decrease the power output of said power conversion system from a first power level corresponding to maximum power point operation of the PV array to a second power level upon receipt of the reduced power operating signal.


5. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first reduced power operating point is a point on a voltage-current curve (V-I curve) associated with the PV array at a current temperature and irradiance, wherein the PV array voltage at the first reduced power operating point is greater than a PV array voltage determined by maximum power point tracking (MPPT).


6. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second reduced power operating point is a point on a V-I curve associated with the PV array at a current temperature and irradiance, wherein the PV array voltage at the second reduced power operating point is less than a PV array voltage determined by MPPT.


7. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said system controller is configured to select the first reduced power operating point to decrease the power output of said power conversion system when one of:
an open circuit voltage of the PV array is less than a predefined voltage rating of said power conversion system; and
the open circuit voltage of the PV array is greater than the predefined voltage rating and a short circuit current of the PV array is between a first predefined current level and a second predefined current level, wherein the first and second predefined current levels are based on current ratings of said power converter and the first predefined current level is greater than the second predefined current level.



8. A system in accordance with claim 7, wherein said system controller is configured to select the second reduced power operating point to decrease the power output of said power conversion system when the open circuit voltage of the PV array is greater than the predefined voltage rating and the short circuit current of the PV array is less than the second predefined current level.


9. A method for controlling operation of a power converter comprising:
storing a rated output power of the power converter;
determining an available power provided to the power converter; and
selecting from a first reduced power operating point and a second reduced power operating point when the available power provided to the power converter is greater than the rated power of the power converter.



10. A method in accordance with claim 9, wherein the power converter is coupled to, and configured to receive power from, a photovoltaic (PV) array, and wherein determining an available power comprises receiving, at a system controller, a measurement of a PV array voltage and a PV array current.


11. A method in accordance with claim 10, further comprising providing a reduced power operating point signal corresponding to the selected reduced power operating point to the power converter.


12. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein providing the reduced power operating point signal to the power converter comprises providing the reduced power operating point signal to a boost converter included within the power converter.


13. A method in accordance with claim 11, further comprising decreasing the power output of the power converter from a first power level corresponding to maximum power point operation of the PV array to a second power level upon receipt of the reduced power operating point signal.


14. A method in accordance with claim 13, wherein decreasing the power output of the power converter comprises controlling the PV array voltage in response to the reduced power operating point signal.


15. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein selecting from the first reduced power operating point and the second reduced power operating point comprises selecting the first reduced power operating point to decrease the power output of the power converter when an open circuit voltage of the PV array is less than a predefined voltage rating of the power converter, wherein the first reduced power operating point comprises a point on a voltage-current curve (V-I curve) associated with the PV array having a PV array voltage that is greater than a PV array voltage determined by maximum power point tracking (MPPT).


16. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein selecting from the first reduced power operating point and the second reduced power operating point comprises selecting the first reduced power operating point to decrease the power output of the power converter when the open circuit voltage of the PV array is greater than the predefined voltage rating of the power converter and a short circuit current of the PV array is between a first predefined current level and a second predefined current level, wherein the first and second predefined current levels are based on current ratings of the boost converter and the first predefined current level is greater than the second predefined current level.


17. A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein selecting from the first reduced power operating point and the second reduced power operating point comprises selecting the second reduced power operating point to decrease the power output of the power converter when the open circuit voltage of the PV array is greater than the predefined voltage rating of the power converter and the short circuit current of the PV array is less than the second predefined current level, wherein the second reduced power operating point comprises a point on a V-I curve associated with the PV array having a PV array voltage that is less than a PV array voltage determined by MPPT.


18. A system controller coupled to, and configured to control operation of, a power converter coupled to a photovoltaic (PV) array and configured to control a PV array voltage, said system controller configured to:
determine an available power provided by the PV array; and
select from a first reduced power operating point and a second reduced power operating point for the power converter when the available power is greater than a rated output power of the power converter.



19. A system controller in accordance with claim 18, further configured to provide a reduced power operating point signal corresponding to the selected reduced power operating point to the power converter, which in response to the reduced power operating point signal is configured to adjust the PV array voltage.


20. A system controller in accordance with claim 18, wherein the first reduced power operating point is a point on a voltage-current curve (V-I curve) associated with the PV array at a current temperature and irradiance, wherein the PV array voltage at the first reduced power operating point is greater than a PV array voltage determined by maximum power point tracking (MPPT), and wherein the second reduced power operating point is a point on a V-I curve associated with the PV array at a current temperature and irradiance, wherein the PV array voltage at the second reduced power operating point is less than a PV array voltage determined by MPPT. 

