
A photovoltaic module has a diagonal mounting bracket for structural attachment of the module to a support structure. The photovoltaic module has a back cover with an outer surface and a diagonal mounting bracket is attached to the back cover and extends along at least a portion of a diagonal of the back cover. A method of forming a photovoltaic module with a diagonal mounting bracket is also described.



1. A photovoltaic module comprising:
a front cover and a back cover;
a plurality of photovoltaic cells between the front and back covers; and
a diagonal mounting bracket attached to the back cover and extending along at least a portion of a diagonal of the back cover.



2. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the first length is about equal to or greater than the second length.


3. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the second length is at least about one-third of the first length.


4. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the second length is between about one-third and about two-thirds of the first length.


5. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has longitudinally extending ribs formed on the outer surface of the bracket.


6. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has longitudinally extending sidewalls formed at opposite side edges of the bracket.


7. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has one or more spaced fasteners for fastening the module to a support structure.


8. The module of claim 7, wherein the fasteners are one of bolts and nuts.


9. The module of claim 1, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket comprises at least one of aluminum, steel, metal alloy and a polymeric material.


10. The module of claim 1, further comprising a first and second corner support clip attached to the front and back covers at respective first and second corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a first diagonal of the module, wherein the first and second corner support clips are each connected to respective first and second opposite ends of the diagonal mounting bracket.


11. The module of claim 10, wherein the first and second ends of the diagonal mounting bracket are each spaced a distance in the range of about 10 mm to about 30 mm from the respective first and second corners of the module.


12. The module of claim 10, further comprising a third and a fourth corner support clip attached to the front and back covers at respective third and fourth corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a second diagonal of the module.


13. The module of claim 12, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips further comprises a junction box.


14. The module of claim 12, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises at least one edge connector for making an electrical connection to said module.


15. The module of claim 3, further comprising a first and second corner support clip attached to the front and back covers at respective first and second corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a first diagonal of the module.


16. The module of claim 15, further comprising a third and a fourth corner support clip attached to the front and back covers at respective third and fourth corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a second diagonal of the module.


17. The module of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises a junction box.


18. The module of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises at least one edge connector forming an electrical connection to said module.


19. A method of forming a photovoltaic module comprising the steps of:
providing a front cover and a back cover;
providing a plurality of photovoltaic cells between the front and back covers;
attaching a diagonal mounting bracket to the back cover, the diagonal mounting bracket extending along at least a portion of a diagonal of the back cover between a first and a second corner of the module provided at opposite ends of a first diagonal of the module for structural attachment of the photovoltaic module to a support structure.



20. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the first length is about equal to or greater than the second length.


21. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the second length is at least about one-third of the first length.


22. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal of the back cover has a first length and the diagonal mounting bracket has a second length, wherein the second length is between about one-third and about two-thirds of the first length.


23. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has longitudinally extending ribs formed on the outer surface of the bracket.


24. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has longitudinally extending sidewalls formed at opposite side edges of the bracket.


25. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket has one or more spaced fasteners for fastening the module to a support structure.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein the fasteners are one of bolts and nuts.


27. The method of claim 19, wherein the diagonal mounting bracket comprises at least one of aluminum, steel, metal alloy and a polymeric material.


28. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of attaching a first and a second corner support clip to the front and back covers of the module at respective first and second corners of the module.


29. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of attaching the diagonal mounting bracket comprises using one of adhesive and ultrasonic welding.


30. The method of claim 28, wherein the first and second opposite ends of the diagonal mounting bracket are each spaced a distance in the range of about 10 mm to about 30 mm from the respective first and second corners of the module.


31. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of attaching a third and a fourth corner support clip to the front and back covers at respective third and fourth corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a second diagonal of the module.


32. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips further comprises a junction box.


33. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises at least one edge connector for making an electrical connection to said module.


34. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of attaching a first and second corner support clip to the front and back covers at respective first and second corners of the module.


35. The method of claim 34, further comprising the step of attaching a third and a fourth corner support clip to the front and back covers at respective third and fourth corners of the module provided at opposite ends of a second diagonal of the module.


36. The method of claim 35, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises a junction box.


37. The method of claim 35, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth corner support clips comprises at least one edge connector forming an electrical connection to said module. 

