
A modular power conversion system and power electronics enabling any power production device or entity to connect to any load or electrical grid including, but not limited to, electricity conversion between low level producer(s) such as a diesel or gas generator, Stirling engine, wind turbine or photovoltaic array, to a consumer such as a commercial or residential building, either directly or via the grid, is disclosed. The modular power conversion system including hardware and software power electronics designed as a modular power stage aggregating different power production entities, transmission systems, consumption and loads as well as energy storage is also disclosed.



1. A modular power conversion system comprising:
at least one first electric resource;
a modular power stage;
at least one second electric resource; and
wherein the modular power stage comprising at last one module including power electronics for converting power between the at least one first electronic resource and the at least one second electric resource.



2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a brake module.


3. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one first electric resource comprising a wind turbine.


4. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one first electric resource comprising a photovoltaic array.


5. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one first electric resource comprising a Stirling generator.


6. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one second electric resource comprising an end consumer.


7. The system of claim 7 wherein the wherein the end consumer comprising a building.


8. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one second electric resource comprising battery energy storage


9. The system of claim 1 wherein the modular power stage facilitates electricity conversion between the at least one first and the at least one second electric resources and allocates the most efficient distribution of electricity based on produce and cost.


10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a conditioner for conditioning the electricity for power transmission.


11. The system of claim 1 wherein the modular power stage is communitively connected to a remote control.


12. The system of claim 1 further comprising a three phase inverter module to connect a three phase grid.


13. The system of claim 12, the three phase inverter module further comprising three half bridges connected to a high and low side of a DC bus.


14. The system of claim 1 further comprising a motor controller for a permanent magnetic synchronous motor comprising:
an analog/digital converter that converts analog sensor signals from the permanent magnetic synchronous motor to digital signals for use by a digital signal processor comprising half bridges across a DC bus and an inductor-capacitor-inductor filter that produce three phase AC power at a predetermined voltage and frequency;
at least one voltage sensor and at least one current sensor for three-phase demodulation of the three phase signals and converting the three-phase signals to a two-phase orthogonal reference frame; and
a position/velocity estimator for receiving speed sensor signals from the motor and compiling a position and velocity estimation of the motor.



15. A method for controlling a modular power conversion system comprising:
drawing power from the least expensive source;
as demand increases, drawing power from the second least expensive source;
directing power to the highest priority circuits; and
if the load of the highest priority circuits is met, then directing power to the second highest priority circuits.



16. The method of claim 15 wherein drawing power from the least expensive source comprising drawing power from a photovoltaic array.


17. The method of claim 15 wherein directing power to the highest priority circuits comprising directing power to a battery.


18. A motor controller for a permanent magnetic synchronous motor comprising:
an analog/digital converter that converts analog sensor signals from the permanent magnetic synchronous motor to digital signals for use by a digital signal processor comprising half bridges across a DC bus and an inductor-capacitor-inductor filter that produce three phase AC power at a predetermined voltage and frequency;
at least one voltage sensor and at least one current sensor for three-phase demodulation of the three phase signals and converting the three-phase signals to a two-phase orthogonal reference frame; and
a position/velocity estimator for receiving speed sensor signals from the motor and compiling a position and velocity estimation of the motor.


