
A mounting bracket arrangement for fastening a solar array to a vertical support pipe, including a generally horizontal bracket plate seated transversely across the pipe to close the interior thereof, and a pair of parallel vertical bracket plates having corresponding lower edge portions each containing pairs of parallel vertical slots that define a center section and a pair of side sections. The vertical bracket plates are arranged normal to the transverse bracket plate such that the center sections extend into the pipe interior via horizontal slots contained in the horizontal plate, and the side sections extend longitudinally externally of the support member for connection by external fastener devices. The solar array is pivotally connected between the upper portions of the vertical bracket plates for angular adjustment relative to the support pipe.



1. A mounting bracket arrangement for fastening an object to a support member, comprising:
(a) a generally vertical support member (6) having an upper end portion containing a longitudinal chamber (C);
(b) a generally horizontal planar transverse bracket plate (10) seated transversely across said support member upper end portion to close said longitudinal chamber, said transverse plate containing a pair of parallel linear horizontal slots (12) opposite said chamber;
(c) a pair of parallel vertical planar rectangular bracket plates (16) having corresponding lower edge portions each containing a pair of parallel linear vertical slots (18) that define a center section (16a) and a pair of side sections (16b), said vertical bracket plates being arranged normal to said transverse bracket plate such that:
(1) said center sections extend into said chamber via said slots, respectively; and
(2) said outer sections extend longitudinally externally of said support member; and

(d) fastener means (20) connecting together the side sections of one vertical bracket plate with the corresponding side sections of the other vertical bracket plate.



2. A mounting bracket arrangement as defined in claim 1, and further including:
(e) a solar array (4) including a longitudinally extending support bar (30) having an intermediate portion extending between the upper portions of said vertical bracket plates;
(f) pivot means (32) connecting said support bar intermediate portion for pivotal displacement between said vertical bracket plates; and
(g) adjustment means (36, 38) for determining the angular position of said support bar relative to said vertical support member.



3. A mounting bracket arrangement as defined in claim 2, wherein said pivot means comprises a pivot pin (32) connected between the upper portions of said vertical brackets; and further wherein said adjustment means includes a plurality of adjustment holes (36) contained in the upper portion of each of said vertical bracket plates in a circular pattern relative to said pivot pin, and an adjustment bolt (38) extending between a pair of corresponding ones of said adjustment holes.


4. A mounting bracket arrangement as defined in claim 3, wherein said vertical brackets contain opposed stop holes (37) adjacent said adjustment holes, said stop holes being arranged to receive a stop bolt extending therebetween to prevent pivoting of the solar array beyond a given position when said adjustment bolt is removed from said adjustment opening.


5. A mounting bracket arrangement as defined in claim 1, wherein said support member comprises a tubular pipe (6); and further wherein said transverse bracket member comprises a circular disk (10) having a diameter that is slightly greater than the outer diameter of said pipe.


6. A mounting bracket arrangement as defined in claim 5, wherein the circumferential surface of said transverse bracket member contains a pair of stabilizing notches (14) arranged on opposite sides of, and in alignment with, each of said linear horizontal slots, respectively, the adjacent edges of said vertical bracket side sections extending into said notches, respectively.

