
A system and apparatus for generating power. In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises a power module for coupling to a DC power source via a DC bus, wherein the power module (i) converts a first power from the DC power source to a second power, and (ii) comprises a maximum power point tracking module unit for dynamically adjusting a load voltage of the DC power source; an AC bus; and a controller, physically separate from the power module and coupled to the power module via the AC bus, for operatively controlling the power module.



1-20. (canceled)


21.) Apparatus for generating power, comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic (PV) modules for generating DC power;
at least one inverter for receiving DC power from at least one PV module in the plurality of PV modules, wherein the at least one inverter further comprises an inversion unit for converting DC power from the plurality of photovoltaic modules into AC power and coupling the AC power to AC wiring and an inverter communications unit for bi-directionally communicating inverter monitoring data to the AC wiring;
a gateway comprising a control unit for processing inverter monitoring data communicated by the communications unit via the AC wiring and an interface unit interfacing with the inverter communications unit of the at least one inverter using the AC wiring and communicates with an external monitor.



22.) The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the communication to the external monitor utilizes wireless or wired communications channels.


23.) The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the inverter monitoring data further includes at least one of inverter operational status, AC current and voltage output data of the inversion unit, or DC current and voltage output data of the PV modules.


24.) The apparatus of claim 21, where the inverter further comprises a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) unit for optimizing the PV module DC output power.


25.) The apparatus of claim 21, where the plurality of PV modules are series connected to form a string of PV modules.


26.) The apparatus of claim 25, where the inverter further comprises a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) unit that performs optimization on a per string basis such that one string of PV modules does not degrade performance of another.


27.) The apparatus of claim 21, wherein each of the PV modules has a single corresponding inverter, and the inverters are connected in parallel via the AC wiring.


28.) The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the gateway further performs at least one of safety, synchronization, protocol, or grid code compliance functions.


29.) A system for partitioning power control functions of inverters, comprising:
a plurality of photovoltaic (PV) modules for generating DC power;
a DC combiner, coupled to the plurality of PV modules, for combining DC power from the plurality of PV modules;
at least one inverter, coupled to the DC combiner for receiving DC power, wherein the at least one inverter further comprises an inversion unit for converting DC power from the at least one DC combiner into AC power and coupling the AC power to AC wiring and an inverter communications unit for bi-directionally communicating inverter monitoring data through the AC wiring;
a gateway comprising a control unit and an interface unit, where the control unit processes inverter monitoring data received from the AC wiring and the interface unit bi-directionally communicates with the at least one inverter using the AC wiring and communicates with an external monitor.



30.) The system of claim 29, wherein the communication to the external monitor utilizes wireless or wired communications channels.


31.) The system of claim 29, wherein the inverter monitoring data further includes at least one of inverter operational status, AC current and voltage output data of the inversion unit, or DC current and voltage output data of the PV modules.


32.) The system of claim 29, where the inverter further comprises a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) unit for optimizing the PV module DC output power.


33.) The system of claim 29, where the plurality of PV modules are series connected to form a string of PV modules.


34.) The system of claim 33, where the inverter further comprises a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) unit that performs optimization on a per string basis such that one string of PV modules does not degrade performance of another.


35.) The system of claim 29, wherein each of the PV modules has a single corresponding inverter, and the inverters are connected in parallel via the AC wiring.


36.) The system of claim 29, wherein the gateway further performs at least one of safety, synchronization, protocol, or grid code compliance functions.

