
Apparatus and techniques for mounting frameless photovoltaic modules to eliminate obstruction of corner and edge-mounted module components with longitudinally-oriented mounted rails. Mounting clamps and rail/clamp spacing configured to relieve module stress by reducing or eliminating module sag are used.



1. A photovoltaic module assembly comprising:
a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet;
a mounting structure comprising module mounting rails; and
a plurality of standoff clamps mounted to at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside sheet and the backside sheet of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module, thereby securing the frameless photovoltaic module on the mounting structure, wherein the standoff clamps comprise a standoff portion.



2. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps are configured to secure the module to the mounting structure in a manner that creates a gap between the module and the mounting structure, wherein the gap is 0.5 to 5.0 inches.


3. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 2, wherein the gap is 1.0 to 3.0 inches.


4. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps secure the frameless module on the mounting structure across the longitudinal length of the module.


5. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the each of the plurality of standoff clamps comprises a rigid portion and an elastomeric portion.


6. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 5, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of standoff clamps engages the frameless module.


7. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 5, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of standoff clamps is selected from a group consisting of EPDM rubber, butyl rubber and silicone rubber.


8. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 7, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of standoff clamps is EPDM rubber.


9. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 8, wherein the EPDM rubber has a Shore hardness of about 60 A.


10. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


11. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the standoff portion comprises a base portion with a solid rail engagement portion.


12. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the standoff portion comprises a base portion with a forked rail engagement portion.


13. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


14. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


15. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


16. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 15, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


17. The photovoltaic module assembly of claim 1, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.


18. A method of installing a frameless photovoltaic module comprising a frontside sheet and a backside sheet onto a mounting structure, the method comprising:
providing the mounting structure comprising module mounting rails;
providing the frameless PV module; and
securing the frameless photovoltaic module onto the mounting structure with a plurality of standoff clamps attached to at least two rails of the mounting structure and engaging the frontside of the frameless photovoltaic module at edge regions of the module overlying at least two rails, wherein the standoff clamps comprise a standoff portion.



19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps are configured to secure the module to the mounting structure in a manner that creates a gap between the module and the mounting structure, wherein the gap is 0.5 to 5.0-inches.


20. The method of claim 19, wherein the gap is 1.0 to 3.0 inches.


21. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps secure the frameless module on the mounting structure across the longitudinal length of the module.


22. The method of claim 18, wherein each of the plurality of standoff clamps comprises a rigid portion and an elastomeric portion.


23. The method of claim 22, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of clamps engages the frameless module.


24. The method of claim 23, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of standoff clamps is selected from a group consisting of EPDM rubber, butyl rubber and silicone rubber.


25. The method of claim 24, wherein the elastomeric portion of each of the plurality of standoff clamps is EPDM rubber.


26. The method of claim 25, wherein the EPDM rubber has a Shore hardness of about 60 A.


27. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of standoff clamps are arranged in two rows, each row positioned about 22% of the module length from each end of the module.


28. The method of claim 18, wherein the standoff portion comprises a base portion with a solid rail-engagement portion.


29. The method of claim 18, wherein the standoff portion comprises a base portion with a forked rail-engagement portion.


30. The method of claim 18, wherein the frontside sheet is a glass sheet.


31. The method of claim 18, wherein the backside sheet is a glass sheet.


32. The method of claim 18, wherein the backside sheet is a non-glass flexible sheet.


33. The method of claim 32, wherein the backside sheet comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene terephthalate, a polypropylene, a polybutylene, and a polybutylene terephthalate.


34. The method of claim 18, wherein the frameless photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interconnected copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) cells.

