
Embodiments of the present invention include systems and methods for performing design automation on a mobile computer system. In one example embodiment the present invention includes a computer-implemented method comprising storing design automation data on a mobile device, displaying a plurality of design automation process steps to a user, the plurality of design automation process steps guiding the user through a design automation process for a project, receiving design automation input data from the user in the mobile device for a plurality of the design automation process steps, executing one or more data processing algorithms specific to at least one of the design automation process steps, and generating output data for the design project.



1. A method comprising:
accessing, by a computing device, a stringing solution for a solar power installation project, the stringing solution specifying one or more strings of solar panel modules to be installed at a site;
determining, by the computing device based on the stringing solution, one or more inverters;
determining, by the computing device based on the one or more inverters and an Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) database, one or more Direct Current (DC) components;
determining, by the computing device based on the one or more DC components and the AHJ database, one or more AC components; and
displaying, by the computing device, the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components via a user interface to a user, the displaying enabling the user to place the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components in a design area of the user interface to facilitate electrical component design of the solar power installation project.



2. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more inverters are determined from a plurality of inverters available for installation at the site.


3. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more inverters have a voltage range and power rating appropriate for the corresponding voltage ranges and power output of the one or more strings of solar panel modules.


4. The method of claim 1 wherein the AHJ database includes electrical requirements defined by a public or private regulatory entity.


5. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more DC components are selected from a group consisting of: a combiner box, a junction box, a U-joint connector, and a DC disconnect.


6. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more AC components are selected from a group consisting of: a load center, a PV meter, and an AC disconnect.


7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one DC component in the one or more DC components or at least one AC component in the one or more AC components is required for completing installation of the solar power installation project.


8. The method of claim 7 wherein at least one DC component in the one or more DC components or at least one AC component in the one or more AC components is optional.


9. The method of claim 8 wherein required components are displayed in the user interface using a first color and wherein optional components are displayed in the user interface using a second color distinct from the first color.


10. The method of claim 1 further comprising enabling the user to draw conduit between components placed in the design area of the user interface.


11. The method of claim 10 wherein the user is only allowed to draw conduit at start and end points that are deemed acceptable based on electrical properties of components being connected by the conduit.


12. The method of claim 10 wherein, upon being drawn, the user interface is configured display characteristics of the conduit to the user.


13. The method of claim 12 wherein the characteristics include string length, branch length, inverter output length, or combined inverter output length.


14. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to the accessing, the stringing solution is generated by the computing device based on a design specification received from the user, the design specification identifying a total number of solar panel modules to be installed at a site and placement of each solar panel module at the site.


15. The method of claim 14 wherein the stringing solution is an optimal solution in view of the design specification.


16. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program code executable by a computing device, the program code comprising:
code that causes the computing device to access a stringing solution for a solar power installation project, the stringing solution specifying one or more strings of solar panel modules to be installed at a site;
code that causes the computing device to determine, based on the stringing solution, one or more inverters;
code that causes the computing device to determine, based on the one or more inverters and an Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) database, one or more Direct Current (DC) components;
code that causes the computing device to determine, based on the one or more DC components and the AHJ database, one or more AC components; and
code that causes the computing device to display the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components via a user interface to a user, the displaying enabling the user to place the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components in a design area of the user interface to facilitate electrical component design of the solar power installation project.



17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16 wherein the one or more DC components are selected from a group consisting of: a combiner box, a junction box, a U-joint connector, and a DC disconnect.


18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16 wherein the one or more AC components are selected from a group consisting of: a load center, a PV meter, and an AC disconnect.


19. A computing device comprising:
a processor configured to:
access a stringing solution for a solar power installation project, the stringing solution specifying one or more strings of solar panel modules to be installed at a site;

determine, based on the stringing solution, one or more inverters;
determine, based on the one or more inverters and an Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) database, one or more Direct Current (DC) components;
determine, based on the one or more DC components and the AHJ database, one or more AC components; and
display the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components via a user interface to a user, the displaying enabling the user to place the inverters, the DC components, and the AC components in a design area of the user interface to facilitate electrical component design of the solar power installation project.



20. The computing device of claim 19 wherein the computing device is a mobile device.

