
Reconfigurable power systems, converters and plants are disclosed, along with operating methods therefor. Reconfigurable power systems may include a DC power source, an electrical energy storage device, an AC power grid connection, a first power converter, and a second power converter. The first power converter may be configured to selectively couple two or more of the DC power source, the electrical energy storage device, and the AC power grid connection. The second power converter may be configured to selectively couple the electrical energy storage device to at least one of the DC power source and the first power converter. The second power converter may be configured as a DC-DC converter.



1. A reconfigurable power system, comprising:
a DC power source;
an electrical energy storage device;
an AC power grid connection;
a first power converter configured to selectively couple two or more of the DC power source, the electrical energy storage device, and the AC power grid connection; and
a second power converter configured to selectively couple the electrical energy storage device to at least one of the DC power source and the first power converter, wherein the second power converter is configured as a DC-DC converter.



2. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein the DC power source includes at least one photovoltaic cell, and the first power converter is configured to perform maximum power point tracking for the at least one photovoltaic cell when coupling the DC power source to at least one of the electrical energy storage device and the AC power grid connection.


3. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein the electrical energy storage device includes a battery.


4. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second power converters includes at least one semiconductor switching device.


5. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein the first power converter is configured to selectively function as a DC-AC inverter, a DC-DC converter, or an AC-DC converter.


6. The reconfigurable power system of claim 5, wherein, when the first power converter couples the DC power source and the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection, the first power converter is configured to function as the DC-AC inverter and the second power converter couples the electrical energy storage device to the DC power source and the first power converter.


7. The reconfigurable power system of claim 5, wherein the first power converter is configured to function as the DC-DC converter when coupling the DC power source to the electrical energy storage device to charge the electrical energy storage device.


8. The reconfigurable power system of claim 5, wherein the first power converter is configured to function as the AC-DC converter when coupling the AC power grid connection to the electrical energy storage device to charge the electrical energy storage device.


9. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein:
the reconfigurable power system is configured to operate in a selected one of at least three modes;
in a first one of the modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-DC converter coupling the DC power source to the electrical energy storage device;
in a second one of the modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-AC inverter coupling the DC power source and the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection and the second power converter couples the electrical energy storage device to the DC power source and the first power converter; and
in a third one of the modes the first power converter is configured as an AC-DC converter coupling the AC power grid connection to the electrical energy storage device.



10. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1, wherein:
the reconfigurable power system is configured to operate in a selected one of at least three modes;
in a first one of the modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-DC converter coupling the DC power source to the electrical energy storage device;
in a second one of the modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-AC inverter coupling the DC power source and the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection and the second power converter couples the electrical energy storage device to the DC power source and the first power converter; and
in a third one of the modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-AC inverter coupling the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection.



11. The reconfigurable power system of claim 10, where in a fourth one of the at least three modes the first power converter is configured as a DC-AC inverter coupling the DC power source to the AC power grid connection.


12. The reconfigurable power system of claim 10, comprising:
a capacitor connected in parallel with the electrical energy storage device and the DC power source; and
a resistor configured to selectively series-couple the electrical energy storage device to the capacitor.



13. The reconfigurable power system of claim 1 assembled into a power plant, the power plant comprising a plurality of the reconfigurable power systems connected together.


14. The power plant of claim 13, wherein:
the plurality of the reconfigurable power systems comprises a first reconfigurable power system and a second reconfigurable power system;
in the first reconfigurable power system, the first power converter of the first reconfigurable power system is selectively configured as a DC-DC converter that couples the DC power source of the first reconfigurable power system to the electrical energy storage device of the first reconfigurable power system; and
in the second reconfigurable power system, the first power converter of the second reconfigurable power system is selectively configured as a DC-AC inverter that couples the AC power grid connection of the second reconfigurable power system to at least one of the DC power source of the second reconfigurable power system and the electrical energy storage device of the second reconfigurable power system.



15. The power plant of claim 14, wherein in the second reconfigurable power system, the second power converter of the second reconfigurable power system couples the electrical energy storage device of the second reconfigurable power system to at least one of the DC power source of the second reconfigurable power system and the first power converter of the second reconfigurable power system.


16. A reconfigurable power converter, comprising:
a power source connection configured to couple with a DC power source;
a storage device connection configured to couple with an electrical energy storage device;
a grid connection configured to couple with an AC power grid;
a first power converter configured to selectively couple two or more of the power source connection, the storage device connection, and the grid connection, wherein the first power converter is selectively configured as one of:
a DC-DC converter when coupling the power source connection to the storage device connection;
a DC-AC inverter when coupling at least one of the power source connection and the storage device connection to the grid connection; and
an AC-DC converter when coupling the grid connection to the storage device connection; and

a second power converter configured to selectively couple the storage device connection to at least one of the power source connection and the first power converter, wherein the second power converter is configured as a DC-DC converter.



17. The reconfigurable power converter of claim 16, wherein the DC power source includes at least one photovoltaic cell, and the first power converter is configured to perform maximum power point tracking for the at least one photovoltaic cell when coupling the power source connection to at least one of the storage device connection and the grid connection.


18. The reconfigurable power converter of claim 16, wherein the electrical energy storage device includes a battery.


19. The reconfigurable power converter of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first and second power converters includes at least one semiconductor switching device.


20. The reconfigurable power converter of claim 16, comprising a resistor configured to selectively limit inrush current to an electrical energy storage device coupled with the storage device connection.


21. A method of operating a reconfigurable power system comprising a DC power source, an electrical energy storage device, and an AC power grid connection, the method comprising:
configuring a first power converter as a DC-DC converter and coupling the DC power source to the electrical energy storage device therewith;
configuring the first power converter as a DC-AC inverter and coupling the DC power source to the AC power grid connection therewith while a second power converter couples the electrical energy storage device to the DC power source and the first power converter, wherein the second power converter is configured as a DC-DC converter; and
configuring the first power converter as a DC-AC inverter and coupling the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection therewith.



22. The method of claim 21, wherein the DC power source includes at least one solar cell, and the first power converter is configured to perform maximum power point tracking for the at least one solar cell when coupling the DC power source to the electrical energy storage device and the AC power grid connection.


23. The method of claim 21, comprising configuring the first power converter as an AC-DC converter and coupling the AC power grid connection to the electrical energy storage device.


24. The method of claim 21, wherein a capacitor is connected in parallel with the electrical energy storage device, and the method comprises:
uncoupling the DC power source from the electrical energy storage device;
equalizing a voltage of the electrical energy storage device to a voltage of the capacitor; and
configuring the first power converter as a DC-AC inverter and coupling the DC power source and the electrical energy storage device to the AC power grid connection after equalizing the voltage of the electrical energy storage device to the voltage of the capacitor, wherein the electrical energy storage device is coupled to the DC power source and the first power converter by way of the second power converter.



25. The method of claim 24, wherein equalizing the voltage of the electrical energy storage device to the voltage of the capacitor comprises connecting the electrical energy storage device to the capacitor through a resistor.

