
A solar roofing shingle assembly includes an attachment panel configured for attachment to a roof deck and a solar shingle mounted to the attachment panel.



1. A solar roofing shingle assembly comprising:
an attachment panel configured for attachment to a roof deck; and
a solar shingle mounted to the attachment panel.



2. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate formed from one of polymer modified asphalt, glass reinforced polymer modified asphalt, and a polymer.


3. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 2, wherein the attachment panel includes at least two layers of the substrate.


4. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate having a length within the range of from about 36.0 inches to about 360.0 inches and a width within the range of from about 10.0 inches to about 24.0 inches.


5. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the attachment panel includes a first substrate layer and a second substrate layer bonded to a backside of the first substrate layer;
wherein the second substrate layer is longer than the first substrate layer, such that one of a first and a second end of the second substrate layer extends outward of a respective first and second end of the first substrate layer; and
wherein the one of the first and a second end of the second substrate layer defines a mounting member.



6. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate having a first surface upon which the solar shingle is mounted, the attachment panel further including an inverter mounted to the first surface and electrically connected to the solar shingle.


7. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 6, wherein the inverter is a solar micro-inverter.


8. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 7, wherein the solar micro-inverter has a power output rating within the range of from about 100 W to about 500 W.


9. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 6, wherein the first surface of the substrate further includes a bus bar mounted to the first surface and electrically connecting the solar shingle and the inverter.


10. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 9, wherein the first surface of the substrate further includes a bus bar channel; and
wherein the bus bar is mounted within the bus bar channel.



11. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 10, wherein the bus bar channel is an elongated member having a body defining a channel, the elongated member mounted to the first surface; and
wherein the bus bar is mounted within the elongated member.



12. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 10, wherein the bus bar channel is defined by a groove formed in the first surface; and
wherein the bus bar is mounted within the groove.



13. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate having a first surface upon which the solar shingle is mounted, the attachment panel further including an attachment member mounted to and spaced apart from the first surface; and
wherein a portion of the solar shingle is disposed between the attachment member and the first surface.



14. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the solar shingle includes a shingle substrate formed from one of polymer modified asphalt, glass reinforced polymer modified asphalt, and a polymer.


15. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the solar shingle includes a shingle substrate having a length within the range of from about 36.0 inches to about 42.0 inches and a width within the range of from about 12.0 inches to about 20.0 inches.


16. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the solar shingle includes a shingle substrate having a first surface upon which a solar cell is mounted, the solar shingle further including a mounting flange extending outward of a first end of the shingle substrate.


17. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 1, wherein the solar cell is formed from one of single crystal silicon, polycrystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, thin film cadmium telluride (CdTe), thin film copper-indium-gallium-selenide (CIGS), and dye-sensitized titania.


18. The solar roofing shingle assembly according to claim 9, wherein the solar shingle includes a shingle substrate having a first surface upon which a solar cell is mounted and a backside opposite the first surface, the solar shingle further including an electrical contact extending outward of the backside of the shingle substrate, the electrical contact electrically connecting the bus bar and the inverter.


19. A solar roofing shingle assembly comprising:
an attachment panel configured for attachment to a roof deck;
a plurality of solar shingles mounted to the attachment panel; and
an inverter electrically connected to the solar shingles;
wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate having a first surface upon which the solar shingles and the inverter are mounted;
wherein each solar shingle includes a shingle substrate having a first surface upon which a plurality of solar cells are mounted, and a backside opposite the first surface;
wherein the substrate further includes a bus bar mounted to the first surface and electrically connecting the solar shingles and the inverter; and
wherein each solar shingle further includes an electrical contact extending outward of the backside of the shingle substrate, the electrical contact electrically connected to the bus bar.



20. In combination, a roof and a solar roofing shingle assembly having an attachment panel attached to the roof, and a solar shingle mounted to the attachment panel;
the attachment panel including a substrate formed from one of polymer modified asphalt, glass reinforced polymer modified asphalt, and a polymer, the substrate having a first surface upon which the solar shingle is mounted, the attachment panel further including an inverter mounted to the first surface and electrically connected to the solar shingle and an attachment member mounted to and spaced apart from the first surface, the substrate further including a bus bar mounted to the first surface and electrically connecting the solar shingle and the inverter, a portion of the solar shingle being disposed between the attachment member and the first surface; and
the solar shingle including a shingle substrate having a first surface upon which a solar cell is mounted and a backside opposite the first surface, the solar shingle further including a mounting flange extending outward of a first end of the shingle substrate, the solar cell being formed from one of single crystal silicon, polycrystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, thin film cadmium telluride (CdTe), thin film copper-indium-gallium-selenide (CIGS), and dye-sensitized titania, the solar shingle further including an electrical contact extending outward of the backside of the shingle substrate, the electrical contact electrically connecting the bus bar and the inverter.



21. A solar roofing shingle assembly comprising:
an attachment panel configured for attachment to a roof deck;
a plurality of solar shingles mounted to the attachment panel; and
an inverter electrically connected to the solar shingles;
wherein the attachment panel includes a substrate having a first surface upon which the solar shingles and the inverter are mounted;
wherein each solar shingle includes a shingle substrate having a first surface upon which a plurality of solar cells are mounted, and a backside opposite the first surface; and
wherein each solar shingle includes a first end and a second end, the first end electrically connected to one of the attachment panel and the second end of an adjacent solar shingle, and the second end configured for electrical connection to the first end of an adjacent solar shingle. 


