
The invention relates to a connection slider for attaching two adjacent frames of photovoltaic modules or collector modules on a profile rail, the connection slider comprising: a main element; two mandrels which extend from two surfaces of the main element oriented in opposite directions, wherein one respective mandrel is insertable into one of the adjacent frames; and a transversal element protruding from the main element, wherein the transversal element has an opposite profile adapted to a profile of the profile rail for providing a form locking connection with the profile rail.



1. A connection slider for attaching two adjacent frames of photovoltaic modules or collector modules on a profile rail, the connection slider comprising:
a main element;
two mandrels which extend from two surfaces of the main element oriented in opposite directions, wherein one respective mandrel is insertable into one of the adjacent frames; and
a transversal element protruding from the main element, wherein the transversal element has an opposite profile adapted to a profile of the profile rail for providing a form locking connection with the profile rail.



2. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the transversal element protrudes from the main element in two directions that are opposite to one another and oriented transversal to a longitudinal direction of the mandrels.


3. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein a longitudinal orientation of the main element is transversal to a longitudinal orientation of the mandrels.


4. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the transversal element protrudes from the main element in two directions that are opposite to one another and which are oriented transversal to a longitudinal direction of the main element.


5. The connection slider according to claim 1,
wherein the main element and the transversal element viewed together approximately have a T-shape,
wherein the transversal element is a transversal beam of the T.



6. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the transversal element includes two wedge shaped free legs.


7. The connection slider according to claim 6, wherein the wedge shaped legs taper in longitudinal direction of the main element viewed from a longitudinal end of the main element.


8. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the connection slider is configured integral in one piece.


9. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the transversal piece is configured so that it is insertable into an opening of the profile of the profile rail and establishes a form locking connection with the profile of the profile rail through subsequent rotation by approximately 90°.


10. The connection slider according to claim 1, wherein the mandrels in a longitudinal sectional view proximal to the main element respectively include an electrically conductive contact portion whose surface is riffled.


11. A frame for receiving one or plural photovoltaic modules or collector modules, comprising:
two frame elements on outsides of the frame oriented in opposite directions,
wherein the frames respectively include at least two recesses for receiving a respective mandrel of a connection slider according to claim 1.



12. The frame according to claim 11, wherein the recesses are configured as slotted holes.


13. An arrangement, comprising:
at least two profile rails arranged parallel to one another;
at least two frames arranged parallel to one another according to claim 11 and resting on the profile rails,
wherein the frames are arranged on the profile rails, so that, two respective recesses in the frame elements are arranged opposite from and oriented towards one another at a level of the profile rails,
wherein a respective connection slider comprises:
a main element;
two mandrels which extend from two surfaces of the main element oriented in opposite directions, wherein one respective mandrel is insertable into one of the adjacent frames; and
a transversal element protruding from the main element, wherein the transversal element has an opposite profile adapted to a profile of the profile rail for providing a form locking connection with the profile rail, and is arranged between the two recesses oriented opposite to one another,
wherein mandrels of the connection slider are inserted into the recesses,
wherein the transversal elements of the connection slider are in form locking connection with the respective profile rail, and
wherein a longitudinal orientation of the mandrels is parallel to a longitudinal orientation of the profile rails.



14. The arrangement according to claim 13, wherein the profile rails are arranged at different levels above ground.


15. The arrangement according to claim 13,
wherein between seven and fifteen frames are arranged in a row adjacent to one another,
wherein two respective adjacent frames are only offset from one another through the connection sliders and a bolted end support and an expansion joint are arranged at least at one end of the row.



16. A module field with photovoltaic modules or collector modules which are mounted through at least one arrangement according to claim 13.


17. The module field according to claim 16 with photovoltaic modules,
wherein the photovoltaic modules of eighteen to twenty six frames are respectively electrically connected with one another, and
some of the frames are mounted through at least one arrangement according to claim 9.



18. A use of connection sliders according to claim 1 for attaching at least two frames, wherein each frame is for receiving one or plural photovoltaic modules or collector modules, and comprises:
two frame elements on outsides of the frame oriented in opposite directions,
wherein the frames respectively include at least two recesses for receiving a respective mandrel of the connection slider, and
at least at two profile rails arranged parallel with one another.



19. A method comprising:
inserting a first connection slider into a longitudinal groove of a first profile rail;
providing a form locking connection of the first connection slider with the first profile rail;
moving the first connection slider along a longitudinal groove of the first profile rail towards a first frame for inserting a first mandrel of the first connection slider into a recess of the first frame for providing a form locking connection between the first frame and the first connection slider;
inserting a second connection slider into a longitudinal groove of a second profile rail;
establishing a form locking connection of the second connection slider with the second profile rail;
moving the second connection slider along a longitudinal groove of the second profile rail towards the first frame for inserting a first mandrel of the second connection slider into a recess of the first frame for providing a form locking connection between the first frame and the second connection slider;
arranging a second frame on the profile rails adjacent to the first frame, so that two respective recesses are arranged opposite to one another approximately at identical elevations in the adjacently arranged frames; and
moving the second frame for inserting a respective second mandrel of the connection sliders into the respective recess of the second frame.



20. The method according to claim 19,
wherein a total of seven to fifteen frames is mounted adjacent to one another,
wherein the frames are only offset from one another through the connection sliders, and
wherein a bolted end support and an expansion joint are mounted thereafter.



21. The method according to claim 20, wherein an electrical connection of photovoltaic modules received in the frames is provided after mounting a total of eighteen to twenty six frames with expansion joints arranged there between.

