
A mounting structure for a solar panel unit, and a system of solar panel units are disclosed that are easy to manufacture and to install. The mounting structure has a relatively simple frame that can be formed by sheet metal bending operations. The solar panel unit also has a smooth exterior surface reducing wind uplift forces on the panel unit and the system.



1. A panel system, comprising:
a plurality of panel units arranged in at least one row and mounted on a mounting surface in such a manner that the panel units do not penetrate the mounting surface, each panel unit comprising: 
a sheet metal frame comprising: 
a front wall; 
a bottom wall connected to the front wall; 
a back wall connected to the bottom wall, the front, bottom, and back walls forming an elongated chamber within the frame; 
a first panel support connected to the front wall; and 
a second panel support connected to the back wall; and 

a solar panel supported by the first and second panel supports of the frame, wherein the front walls of the frames in the at least one row are aligned, wherein the back walls of the frames in the at least one row are aligned, and wherein adjacent panel units in the at least one row are connected to each other by a stiffening member. 




2. The panel system of claim 1, wherein:
the back wall is taller than the front wall. 



3. The panel system of claim 2, wherein:
the first panel support extends from a first bend in the front wall and includes a second bend. 



4. The panel system of claim 3, wherein:
the second panel support extends from a first bend in the back wall and includes a second bend. 



5. The panel system of claim 4, wherein:
a portion of the first panel support extending from the first bend in the front wall extends substantially along a nonzero angle alpha with respect to the bottom wall; and 
a portion of the second panel support extending from the first bend in the back wall also extends substantially along the angle alpha. 



6. The panel system of claim 5, wherein:
a panel supported in the first and second panel supports extends along the angle alpha. 



7. The panel system of claim 2, comprising:
a mat disposed below the frame. 



8. The panel system of claim 2, wherein each row of panel units includes a panel unit at a first end of the row, a panel unit at a second end of the row, and panel units between the end panel units.


9. The panel system of claim 8, wherein a continuous open chase extends through the panel units in a row.


10. The panel system of claim 9, comprising:
an endcap mounted on each of the end panel units, the endcaps at least partially closing off the continuous open chase. 



11. The panel system of claim 8, comprising:
a DC to AC conversion unit proximate at least one row in the panel system. 


