
An apparatus for holding a plurality of solar cell units includes a mounting member to be fixed onto a roof, a plurality of fixtures, and a frame member having to-be-sandwiched portions to be sandwiched and fixed between the mounting member and the fixtures, and grooves that support the ends of the plate-shaped solar cell units. The to-be-sandwiched portions of the frame members are positioned inside projection plane regions that project the solar cell units and the grooves immediately below, whereby the distance between adjacent solar cell units reduces.



1. An apparatus for holding a plurality of solar cell units that are plate-shaped, comprising:
a roof mount fixture configured to be fixed onto a roof;
a mounting member configured to be fixed to the roof mount fixture and including at least one side plate;
a plurality of modules; and
a frame member including to-be-sandwiched portions configured to be sandwiched and fixed between the mounting member and the fixture, and unit supporting portions configured to support ends of the solar cell units, wherein
the frame member includes projection plane regions configured to project the solar cell units and the unit supporting portions directly underneath,
the to-be-sandwiched portions are positioned inside the projection plane regions,
the roof mount fixture includes a convex portion that contacts the at least one side plate of the mounting member from an inner side of the at least one side plate for preventing a deformation of the mounting member,
wherein, the unit supporting portion includes
a groove in which a first end of the solar cell unit is fitted, and
a downward extending portion that bends and extends downward from any one of a middle and an end of a lower plate of the groove substantially perpendicular to the lower plate, and the to-be-sandwiched portion projects sideward from the downward extending portion,

the mounting member is convex in shape and has steps, and is placed such that the convex portion faces towards sunlight,
the frame member has holes in which electrical cables of the solar cell unit are inserted, and is arranged on the steps of the mounting member, and
a space surrounded by a pair of facing frame members and an upper surface of the mounting member houses the electrical cables.



2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the frame member includes a concave portion configured to be engaged with a step of the mounting member.



3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the modules and the mounting member are fixed with bolts, and
a cover with a flat upper surface is provided between the pair of facing frame members, for internal protection.



4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein
the cover includes a guide rail at its center, and
the modules include fastening portions configured to come into contact with the to-be-sandwiched portions of the frame members, and guide supports that engage with the guide rail to guide and support the cover.



5. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein
the cover has a guide rail at each of two ends,
the modules include fastening portions configured to come into contact with the to-be-sandwiched portions of the frame members, and a pair of guide supports that engage with the guide rails to guide and support the cover, and
the modules have a length so as to be rotated by 90 degrees and arranged between the pair of facing frame members. 


