
A two-axis solar tracker is capable of withstanding extreme weather conditions. The solar tracker includes a solar array, a frame, a base, a pivot frame, and a first and second actuator. The solar array is mounted to the frame and captures sunlight. The base is pivotally connected to the frame and defines a pivot axis for elevational movement of the solar array. The pivot frame is also pivotally connected to the frame and defines a pivot axis for azimuthal movement of the solar array. The first actuator controls elevational movement of the solar array and the second actuator controls azimuthal movement of the solar array. The solar tracker is pivotable between a raised position and a stowed position.



1. A two-axis solar tracker comprising:
a solar array for capturing sunlight;
a frame connected to the solar array;
a pivot frame pivotally connected to the frame to define an azimuthal axis;
a base pivotally connected to the pivot frame to define an elevation axis;
a connector mounted to the pivot frame;
a first actuator connected between the frame and the connector for controlling azimuthal movement of the solar array about the azimuthal axis; and
a second actuator connected between the base and the connector for controlling elevational movement of the solar array about the elevation axis.



2. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the pivot frame forms a truss.


3. The solar tracker of claim 2, wherein the pivot frame is formed of glass reinforced thermoplastic.


4. The solar tracker of claim 2, wherein the pivot frame is formed of extruded metal.


5. The solar tracker of claim 4, wherein the extruded metal is aluminum.


6. The solar tracker of claim 2, wherein the truss has a triangular shape.


7. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the first and second actuators are linear actuators.


8. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the pivot frame is a truss that supports the solar array.


9. The solar tracker of claim 8, wherein said truss extends diagonally across said solar array.


10. The solar tracker of claim 9, wherein said truss extends generally from a first corner of said solar array to a second opposite corner of said solar array.


11. The solar tracker of claim 8, wherein the truss is formed from a plurality of truss sections connected to one another to form an elongated triangular shape.


12. The solar tracker of claim 8, wherein the truss is formed of extruded metal or glass reinforced thermoplastic.


13. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the solar tracker is pivotable between a raised position and a stowed position about the elevation axis.


14. The solar tracker of claim 13, wherein said stowed position locates the solar array in a generally horizontal position.


15. The solar tracker of claim 14, wherein said solar array is completely contained within a plane defined thereby.


16. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the first actuator and the second actuator are attached to the connector in a transverse orientation.


17. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein said solar array is completely contained within a plane defined thereby.


18. The solar tracker of claim 1, wherein the frame includes a plurality of supports, each support directly connected to at least one of the other supports.


19. A two-axis solar tracker comprising:
a solar array for capturing sunlight;
a frame connected to the solar array;
a first leg mount;
a first link arm pivotally connected to the first leg mount to define an elevation axis;
a pivot frame pivotally connected between the frame and the first link arm to define an azimuthal axis;
a first actuator connected between the frame and the first link arm for controlling azimuthal movement of the solar array about said azimuthal axis;
a second leg mount;
a second link arm pivotally connected to the second leg mount at a first section and pivotally connected to said first link arm at a second section, said second link arm includes a joint intermediate the first section and the second section; and
a second actuator connected between the first section and the second section for controlling elevational movement of the solar array about said elevation axis.



20. The solar tracker of claim 19, wherein the second actuator is pivotally mounted to the first section and pivotally mounted to the second section.


21. The solar tracker of claim 19, wherein the first and second actuators are linear actuators.


22. The solar tracker of claim 19, wherein the solar array captures sunlight.


23. The solar tracker of claim 19, wherein the solar array is substantially planar.


24. The solar tracker of claim 19, further including a third leg mount, wherein the first link arm is pivotally connected to the third leg mount.


25. The solar tracker of claim 24, further including a fourth leg mount, wherein the second link arm is pivotally connected to the fourth leg mount. 

