
The invention pertains to a solar sensor that includes a first modulator that is transparent to electromagnetic waves within a spectrum, and an additional modulator that is at best slightly transparent to the electromagnetic waves within the spectrum. The additional modulator features a belt-shaped region of varying widths that is arranged on the outside of the first modulator and partially covers the first modulator, and a photodetector that receives the electromagnetic waves and is covered by the first modulator.



1. A solar sensor featuring:
a first modulator that is transparent to electromagnetic waves within a spectrum;
an additional modulator that is, at best, slightly transparent to the electromagnetic waves within the spectrum, wherein the additional modulator includes a belt-shaped region arranged on an outside of the first modulator and partially covers the first modulator, wherein the belt-shaped region has a greater width at a top of the first modulator than at sides of the first modulator; and
a photodetector located to receive the electromagnetic waves and being covered by the first modulator.



2. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first modulator includes a dome-shaped region and the photodetector is arranged beneath the dome-shaped region relative to irradiation of the electromagnetic waves.


3. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first modulator includes an angled polish cut.


4. The solar sensor according to claim 3, wherein the angled polish cut of the first modulator is exposed with respect to the second modulator.


5. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first modulator is realized in one piece.


6. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the additional modulator is realized in one piece.


7. The solar sensor according to claim 2, wherein the first modulator includes several dome-shaped regions that respectively cover the photodetector.


8. The solar sensor according to claim 2, further comprising a flange through which mounting means can be inserted, the flange being arranged adjacent to the dome-shaped region of the first modulator.


9. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first and additional modulators adjoin one another in a form-fitting fashion.


10. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first modulator acts as a lens, as well as a prism.


11. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the first modulator contains a translucent material.


12. The solar sensor according to claim 11, wherein the first modulator contains a polycarbonate.


13. The solar sensor according to claim 1, further comprising a covering cap, wherein the first modulator and the additional modulator are covered by the covering cap.


14. The solar sensor according to claim 13, wherein the covering cap has a surface roughness with a scattering effect for electromagnetic waves.


15. The solar sensor according to claim 1, wherein the spectrum, to which the first modulator is transparent, comprises the infrared spectrum.


16. A solar sensor featuring:
a first modulator that is transparent to electromagnetic waves within a spectrum, wherein the first modulator includes an angled polish cut;
an additional modulator that is, at best, slightly transparent to the electromagnetic waves within the spectrum, wherein the additional modulator includes a belt-shaped region of varying width arranged on an outside of the first modulator and partially covers the first modulator; and
a photodetector located to receive the electromagnetic waves and being covered by the first modulator.



17. The solar sensor according to claim 16, wherein the angled polish cut of the first modulator is exposed with respect to the second modulator.


18. The solar sensor according to claim 16, wherein the first modulator includes a dome-shaped region and the photodetector is arranged beneath the dome-shaped region relative to irradiation of the electromagnetic waves.


19. The solar sensor according to claim 18, wherein the first modulator includes several dome-shaped regions that respectively cover the photodetector.


20. The solar sensor according to claim 18, further comprising a flange through which mounting means can be inserted, the flange being arranged adjacent to the dome-shaped region of the first modulator. 

