
A conductor strip connection device for a junction box of a solar module is disclosed and comprises a contact member having a contact segment for connecting to a conductor strip, a suppressing member having a suppressing part configured to cooperate with the contact segment of the contact member for securing a conductor strip, and a fastening member configured to assemble the suppressing member and the contact member together or disassemble the suppressing member from the contact member for allowing the suppressing member to cooperate with the contact segment of the contact member so as to secure or release the conductor strip.



1. A junction box, comprising:
a housing having an opening for introducing a plurality of conductor strips thereinto; and
an electrical connection mechanism disposed in a receptacle of said housing and comprising:
a plurality of conductor strip connection devices separately disposed on an inner surface of said housing for connecting to said conductor strips; and
a current-path arrangement module comprising a plurality of electricity conveying elements and a plurality of electronic components, wherein said electricity conveying elements are connected with said conductor strip connection devices respectively, and each said electronic component is connected with two adjacent electricity conveying elements;
wherein each of said conductor strip connection devices comprises:
a contact member having a contact segment;
a suppressing member having a suppressing part configured to cooperate with said contact segment of said contact member for securing said corresponding conductor strip; and
a fastening member configured to fasten the suppressing member on said contact segment of said contact member or disassemble said suppressing member from said contact member for allowing said suppressing member to cooperate with said contact segment of said contact member so as to secure or release said conductor strip.





2. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said contact member further comprises a fixing segment connected with said contact segment and configured to connect with a corresponding electricity conveying element of said current-path arrangement module.


3. The junction box according to claim 2, wherein said contact segment of said contact member comprises a first portion and a second portion, and said second portion is connected with and between said first portion and said fixing segment.


4. The junction box according to claim 3, wherein said second portion is offset from said first portion and said fixing segment and has a receiving portion for receiving said suppressing member.


5. The junction box according to claim 3, wherein said second portion of said contact segment comprises a first through hole and two sidewalls, and said suppressing member comprises a second through hole.


6. The junction box according to claim 5, wherein said fastening member is configured to pass through said second through hole of said suppressing member and said first through hole of said contact member and couples with a coupling element.


7. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said conductor strip connection device further comprises a resilient member disposed between said contact segment of said contact member and said suppressing member for urging against said contact member and said suppressing member.


8. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said conductor strip connection device further comprises a frame, and said contact member is disposed between said frame and said suppressing member.


9. The junction box according to claim 8, wherein said suppressing member is pivotally connected with said frame.


10. The junction box according to claim 9, wherein said suppressing member further comprises a pivotal portion, and said frame comprises two arms, wherein each of said two arms has a bore for installing said pivotal portion of said suppressing member.


11. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said suppressing member is a wedge.


12. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said contact member is made of metal material.


13. The junction box according to claim 1, wherein said suppressing member is made of metal material.


14. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said electronic components are bypass diodes.


15. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said current-path arrangement module further comprises a carrier for supporting and mounting said electricity conveying elements and said electronic components thereon.


16. The junction box according to the claim 15, wherein and said electricity conveying elements are electrical conductive rails disposed on a surface of said carrier.


17. A conductor strip connection device for a junction box of a solar module, comprising:
a contact member having a contact segment for connecting to a conductor strip;
a suppressing member having a suppressing part configured to cooperate with said contact segment of said contact member for securing said conductor strip; and
a fastening member configured to fasten the suppressing member on said contact segment of said contact member or disassemble said suppressing member from said contact member for allowing said suppressing member to cooperate with said contact segment of said contact member so as to secure or release said conductor strip. 


