
A photovoltaic power system includes module strings each having photovoltaic modules connected in series. The power system further includes a generator terminal box having DC converters. The power system further includes a generator main connection line and an AC inverter. Each module string is electrically connected to a respective one of the DC converters for the module string to provide a DC voltage generated by the photovoltaic modules of the module string to the respective DC converter. The DC converters output a combined DC voltage based on the DC voltages from the module strings to the AC inverter via the generator main connection line for the AC inverter to transform the combined DC voltage into an AC voltage. The generator terminal box and the AC converter are spatially separate from one another.



1. A photovoltaic power system comprising:
a plurality of module strings, wherein each module string includes a plurality of photovoltaic modules connected in series;
a generator terminal box having a plurality of DC converters;
a generator main connection line; and
an AC inverter;
wherein each module string is electrically connected to a respective one of the DC converters for the module string to provide a DC voltage generated by the photovoltaic modules of the module string to the respective DC converter;
wherein the DC converters output a combined DC voltage based on the DC voltages from the module strings to the AC inverter via the generator main connection line for the AC inverter to transform the combined DC voltage into an AC voltage;
wherein the generator terminal box and the AC converter are spatially separate from one another.



2. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
the DC converters separate the module strings galvanically from the AC inverter.



3. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 further comprising:
an AC switching cabinet, wherein the AC inverter is connected to the AC switching cabinet to provide the AC voltage to the AC switching cabinet for the AC switching cabinet to distribute to a power network.



4. The photovoltaic power system of claim 3 wherein:
the AC switching cabinet includes an input counter.



5. The photovoltaic power system of claim 3 wherein:
the AC inverter and the AC switching cabinet are combined into a single physical unit.



6. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
each photovoltaic module is a solar cell.



7. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
each module string includes a pair of connection lines which respectively lead out from the front end of the most forward photovoltaic module in the module string and from the rear end of the most rearward photovoltaic module in the module string;
wherein the pair of connection lines of each module string are connected to the respective DC converter in order to electrically connect the module string with the respective DC converter.



8. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
the connection lines of the module strings lead into the generator terminal box such that the module strings are electrically connected in parallel to one another.



9. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
no more than two of the module strings are electrically connected to each DC converter.



10. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
only one module string is electrically connected to each DC converter.



11. The photovoltaic power system of claim 1 wherein:
one of the module strings includes a different number of photovoltaic modules than another one of the module strings. 


