
A mounting system is provided for solar modules with a compressable retention structure for solar modules. The retention structure may interleave a upper and lower rail that provides a shelf or other support structure in order to hold a solar module or panel in an operative position. The upper and lower rails may be compressed towards one another in order to cause the support structure to retain the solar modules or panels.



1. An assembly for mounting solar modules to a surface, the assembly comprising:
two or more compressed rail assemblies to retain one or more solar modules, each rail assembly comprising:
an upper rail including an upper support structure and one or more upper flange members;
a lower rail including a base, one or more lower flange members that each extend upward from the base, and a lower support structure that extends from at least one of the flange members;
wherein one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members is disposed within and adjacent to the other of the one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members, so that the upper rail and the lower rail are interleaved to provide an adjustable spacing between the upper support structure and the lower support structure for receiving an end of an individual solar module; and
a compression mechanism comprising a plurality of components that combine to extend the compression mechanism vertically through the upper support structure and the base of the lower rail, so as to extend out of the lower rail, the compression mechanism being structured to engage the interleaved upper and lower rail in order to compress the upper support structure and lower support structure in grasping the end of at least one solar module.



2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the upper rail and the lower rail are axially adjustable when engaged to enable variation of a spacing between the upper support structure and the lower support structure that is sufficient to enable any one of a set of one or more solar modules to be retained therein, wherein each set has a thickness that is different than a thickness of another set.


3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein a range of adjustability for the spacing is greater than 0.25 inches.


4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein a range of adjustability for the spacing is anywhere between 0.25 inches and 2.0 inches.


5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein a lateral movement of either an upper flange of the upper rail extending downward, or the lower flange of the lower rail extending upward, is confined at least in part by the other of the upper flange or the lower flange when the upper rail and the lower rail are adjusted axially.


6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression mechanism includes one or more mechanical fasteners.


7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression member includes a compression bolt.


8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the upper rail and the lower rail are securable by an interlocking feature provided within the rails that enables the upper rail and the lower rail to be fixed with respect to each other.


9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression mechanism includes a bolt that extends through each rail assembly at either a top end or at a bottom end, and a fastener that secures the bolt at the other of the top end or the bottom end.


10. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a strut runner that couples to the lower rail in order to couple the lower rail to the surface and provide a fixed spacing for another lower rail.


11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the strut runner includes a slot that extends in a lengthwise direction, wherein the slot is dimensioned to receive a component or portion of the compression mechanism extending through at least a base of the lower rail.


12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the upper rail has a corresponding inertial mass about a lateral direction that is within 40% of a corresponding inertial mass of the lower rail.


13. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the strut runner is elevated and tilted in a plane above the surface by a pivotal base coupling mechanism.


14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the pivotal base coupling mechanism includes one or more pivotally hinged front feet.


15. The assembly of claim 13, further comprising one or more supporting rear legs to support the strut runner in the plane.


16. An assembly for mounting solar modules to a surface, the assembly comprising:
an upper rail on which an upper support structure for at least partially retaining one or more of the solar modules is provided, wherein the upper rail includes one or more upper flange members;
a lower rail on which a lower support structure for at least partially retaining one or more of the solar modules is provided, the lower rail comprising a base, and one or more lower flange members that each extend upward from the base, wherein the lower support structure extends from at least one of the flange members;
wherein at least one of the upper support structure and the lower support structure are structured to support one or more solar modules;
an interleaving means for coupling the upper rail and the lower rail to one another so that at least one of the upper rail and the lower rail is moveable relative to the other of the upper rail and the lower rail, wherein the interleaving means includes one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members disposed within and adjacent to the other of the one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members;
a compression mechanism that extends through the upper support structure and through the base of the lower rail, wherein the compression mechanism is adjustable to axially compress or loosen the interleaved and coupled upper rail and lower rail so as to enable adjustment and retention of one or more solar modules between the upper support structure and the lower structure.



17. The assembly of claim 7, further comprising one or more fasteners that laterally secure the upper rail and lower rail when the upper rail and lower rail are compressed and assembled.


18. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the upper rail is U-shaped to receive the other of the upper or lower rail in an interleaved and slidable engagement.


19. The assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the upper rail and lower rail includes opposing flanges that are U-shaped.


20. The assembly of claim 19, wherein when assembled, the opposing flanges of the upper and lower rails are nested and interleaved.


21. An assembly for mounting a plurality of solar modules onto a surface, the assembly comprising:
a plurality of rail assemblies, each rail assembly including:
an upper rail on which an upper support structure is provided, wherein the upper rail comprises one or more upper flange members;
a lower rail comprising a base, one or more lower flange members that each extend upward from the base, and a lower support structure that extends from at least one of the flange members
a compression mechanism;
wherein the upper rail, the lower rail, and the compression mechanism are assemblable on site of the surface to operatively support the plurality of solar modules on the surface, the upper and lower rail being structured and dimensioned with respect to the compression mechanism so that the compression mechanism is assembled to extend through the upper support structure and through the base of the lower rail to compress each of the upper and lower rail against one another;
wherein when the assembly is at least partially assembled on site of the surface, (i) the upper rail extends downward towards the lower support structure, and the lower rail extends upwards towards the upper support structure; (ii) one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members is disposed within and adjacent to the other of the one of the one or more upper flange members or the one or more lower flange members, so that the upper rail and the lower rail are interleaved to be slideably engaged in order to enable the upper rail and the lower rail to axially adjust positions; (iii) the compression mechanism is adjustable to axially compress or loosen the interleaved engagement of the upper rail and lower rail so as to enable adjustment and retention of one or more solar modules retained between the upper support structure and the lower structure; and
one or more strut runners that interconnect the rail assembly to the surface, wherein each of the plurality of rail assemblies is coupled to the one or more strut runners to be adjustable in position along a lateral direction.




22. The assembly of claim 21, wherein the upper rail, the lower rail and the one or more strut runners are configured so that when assembled on site of the surface, the plurality of solar modules are supported so that adjacent pairs of solar modules provided along at least a first direction seamlessly abut one another.


23. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression mechanism is operable to adjust the interleaved engagement of the upper rail and lower rail, to affect the spacing between the upper support structure and the lower support structure in grasping solar modules of varying thicknesses.


24. The assembly of claim 9, where the compression mechanism includes a captive nut provided on the lower rail such that the upper rail and the lower rail may be compressed into the engaged position without requiring an installer to have access to the lower rail.


25. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the bolt of the compression mechanism is inserted into the upper rail via an opening in a top surface of the upper rail, and extends through an opening in the base of the lower rail in order to extend completely through the lower rail.


26. The assembly of claim 25, wherein the upper rail and the lower rail are each rectangular and hollow structures, and wherein the bolt of the compression mechanism is passed through a void of each of the hollowed upper and lower rails.


27. The assembly of claim 1, each of the upper rail and lower rails include at least a flange that includes one or more side fasteners, each of the one or more side fasteners extending through one of the flanges of the lower rail and a corresponding flange of the upper rail.


28. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the side fasteners compress the flange of each of the upper and lower rails against one another and support the compression member.


29. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the side fasteners are positioned to fix the position of the flanges from the upper and lower rails.


30. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising two free edge rail assemblies, each free edge rail assembly extending the upper and lower support structures in only one direction, so that the each free edge rail assemblies extend the respective upper and lower support structures towards the other of the two free edge rail assemblies.


31. The assembly of claim 30, further comprising at least three compressed rail assemblies, including the at least two free edge rail assemblies and at least one shared rail assembly that extends each of the upper support structure and lower support structure in opposite directions, symmetrically about a vertical reference. 

