
A method of operating an inverter for converting direct voltage into alternating voltage. The inverter has direct-voltage terminals and alternating-voltage terminals and a plurality of power switching elements that are clocked at high-frequency connected between the d.c. and a.c. terminals. The high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements of the inverter is switched off around a zero transition of the alternating current or the alternating voltage for a period which depends on the direct voltage present at the direct-voltage terminals of the inverter and/or the output power of the inverter. No current is generated during time intervals with a poor efficiency.



1. A method of operating an electrical inverter for converting direct voltage into alternating voltage, the method which comprises the following steps:
providing direct-voltage terminals, alternating-voltage terminals and a plurality of power switching elements clocked at high-frequency and connected between the direct-voltage terminals and the alternating-voltage terminals; and
switching off the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements at a zero transition of the alternating current for a period depending on at least one of a direct voltage present at the direct-voltage terminals of the inverter or an average output power of the inverter.



2. The method according to claim 1, which comprises switching off the high-frequency clocking at each zero transition of the alternating current.


3. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, in a partial-load range of the inverter, selecting the period, during which the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements is switched off at the zero transition of the alternating current, to become longer as the output power of the inverter becomes lower.


4. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, in a partial-load range of the inverter, activating the power switching elements to cause a current generated at the alternating-voltage terminals to change with a slope of a curve of a voltage present at the alternating-voltage terminals.


5. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, in a partial-load range of the inverter, activating the power switching elements to cause a current generated at the alternating-voltage terminals to change with a slope of a square of a curve of a voltage present at the alternating-voltage terminals.


6. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises switching off the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements of the inverter at the zero transition of the alternating current with equally long time intervals for rising and falling edges thereof.


7. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises switching off the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements of the inverter at the zero transition of the alternating current with differently long time intervals for rising and falling edges thereof.


8. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, in a peak-load range of the inverter, selecting the period, during which the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements is switched off at the zero transition of the alternating current to be minimal or zero.


9. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, in a peak-load range of the inverter, activating the power switching elements to cause a current generated at the alternating-voltage terminals to have a shape of a flattened sinusoidal curve.


10. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises matching the frequency of the high-frequency clocking of the power switching elements of the inverter to a root-mean-square value of a current generated at the alternating-voltage terminals.


11. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises activating the power switching elements of the inverter to cause a current generated at the alternating-voltage terminals to have a curve shape with few harmonics.


12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the inverter is a transformerless inverter.


13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the inverter feeds current into an alternating-voltage system.


14. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises connecting a photovoltaic direct-voltage source, a fuel cell or a battery at the direct-voltage terminals.


15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the power switching elements contain half-bridges or full-bridges, reverse converters, boost choppers, buck choppers, Cuk converters or Sepic converters. 

