
Control apparatus 1 for photovoltaic modules 3 which can be connected to one or more photovoltaic modules 3. The control apparatus is able to check for the proper working of the solar modules, and also to collect all electrical data like voltage, current, power, energy in order to calculate also the efficiency of the plant. Up to 16 modules can be used (including a master controller, temperature measurement modules, output modules, input modules) and they are interconnected by using a bus system which does not require any wire. A base level consist of one master controller module and one or more input modules. An extended system includes also additional modules, like measurement of temperatures or relay outputs.



1. Control apparatus for photovoltaic modules, wherein the control apparatus comprises at least one input connection system wherein said input connection system is adapted to be connected to at least one photovoltaic module and the control apparatus comprises at least one controller unit which is connected to said at least one input connection system and wherein the controller unit is adapted to verify permanently the proper operating of the photovoltaic modules and is further adapted to alert of theft, fuse blown, incorrect polarity and connection.


2. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control apparatus comprises a main breaker.


3. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller unit is adapted to collect data, by means of pulses or a serial communication port by external energy meters.


4. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller unit is adapted to control the photovoltaic modules and calculate the relevant efficiency.


5. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller unit is adapted to control external devices by means of input and/or output units.


6. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein it comprises at least one input unit.


7. Control apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the at least one input unit integrates a fuse.


8. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein it comprises at least one output unit.


9. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein it comprises at least one measurement unit.


10. Control apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the measurement unit is adapted to measure temperature, voltage, current, power and/or energy.


11. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least two of said units are interconnectable by a bus system.


12. Control apparatus according to claim 11, wherein at least two of said units have at least one male connector at a first side and at least one corresponding female connector at a second side which is opposite to said first side, so that said units are connectable with each other.


13. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said units comprises a groove which fits on a standard mounting rail.


14. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one of said units includes an allocator device which is capable of automatically assigning an address or a subaddress to said units according its position.


15. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein it is suitable as retro-fit allowing the units to replace existing fuse holders in electrical panels.


16. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the system is modular.


17. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein it includes multicolor LEDs adapted to give immediate visual indication of the electrical parameters status and level of the photovoltaic modules.


18. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least two of the photovoltaic modules are connected in series.


19. Control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least two of the photovoltaic modules are connected in parallel. 

