
The system and method for automatic positioning of a solar array utilizes modular neural processors pre-trained from existing solar data to estimate the direction of the sun at any location and at any time, irrespective of the orientation or movement of the base unit, and to determine solar panel servo tracking system steering commands for optimal orientation of the solar panel surfaces towards the sun. The automatic positioning system may be used in power generation or water desalination facilities. The device integrates a GPS system, an electronic compass, and an inclination sensor for determination of the orientation of the base unit. Periodic control commands are issued to conventional servo systems for automatic steering of a solar array for maximum solar power acquisition to optimize energy gain versus energy consumption in steering.



1. A computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array attached to a base unit, comprising the steps of:
calculating a first set of parameters including the latitude and longitude of the base unit;
calculating a second set of parameters including the local date and time;
normalizing the first set of parameters using a first transformation table;
normalizing the second set of parameters using a second transformation table;
training a first neural network with existing sun directional data;
processing the normalized first set of parameters and the normalized second set of parameters using the first neural network to obtain an output including an estimate of the sun's direction in terms of azimuth angle and zenith angle of the sun;
processing the estimated sun direction information to determine servo steering commands for at least one solar beam tracking assembly; and
sending the servo steering commands to a servomechanism attached to the solar array, thereby directing the solar array to align surfaces of the solar array with the sun for receiving maximum available solar energy.



2. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the step of automatically determining the latitude, longitude, and local time of the base unit using outputs from a GPS unit.


3. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
automatically determining orientation of the base unit with respect to magnetic north using outputs from an electronic compass;
normalizing the local latitude and longitude using a third transformation table;
processing the normalized local latitude and longitude by a second neural network to obtain an estimate of the Earth's magnetic field declination angle;
automatically determining the correct orientation of the base unit with respect to true geographic north using the Earth's magnetic field declination angle; and
automatically compensating for steering errors due to any misalignment of the base unit using the automatically determined base unit orientation.



4. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 3, wherein said step of automatically compensating for steering errors further comprises the step of accepting base tilt information from at least one tilt sensor associated with said base unit.


5. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
accepting user entry of solar receiver position relative to the position of the base unit;
continuously calculating an optimal orientation of at least one array of solar reflectors to direct solar energy reflected by the at least one solar reflector array to the solar receiver; and
sending the calculated positions to servomechanisms operably connected to the at least one solar reflector array.



6. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, wherein the solar array includes at least one array of photovoltaic solar panels.


7. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
displaying menus and step-by-step instructions to guide a user through operation of a device implementing the method, said step-by-step instructions including instructions for alignment of the device;
displaying measured parameters and computed parameters responsive to requests from the user;
accepting user entry of position data of a companion solar collector; and
sending steering commands to the servo systems responsive to user commands to the device.



8. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the step of sending positioning commands to a plurality of solar beam tracking assemblies via a high-speed digital communication link.


9. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the step of communicating with a remote host computer for monitoring and supervisory control.


10. The computer-implemented method for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 1, further comprising the step of estimating at least one of the second set of parameters based on processing the first set of parameters, the second set of parameters including sunset time, sunrise time, meridian time, and sun zenith angle at solar noon, the estimating step utilizing an interpolation equation to continuously update an estimation of the direction of the sun for a sun angular velocity of 15° per hour.


11. A system for automatic positioning of a solar array attached to a base unit, the system comprising:
means for calculating a first set of parameters including latitude and longitude of the base unit and a second set of parameters including local date and time;
means for normalizing the first set of parameters using a first transformation table;
means for normalizing the second set of parameters using a second transformation table;
a first neural network;
means for training the first neural network with existing sun directional data;
means for processing the normalized first set of parameters and the normalized second set of parameters using the first neural network in order to obtain an output including an estimate of the sun's direction in terms of azimuth angle and zenith angle of the sun;
means for processing the estimated sun direction information to determine servo steering commands for one or more solar beam tracking assemblies; and
means for sending the servo steering commands to a servomechanism attached to the solar array, thereby directing the solar array to align surfaces of the solar array with the sun for receiving maximum available solar energy.



12. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising a global positioning system (GPS) unit and means for automatically determining the latitude, longitude, and local time of the base unit using outputs from the GPS unit.


13. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising:
an electric compass;
means for automatically determining orientation of the base unit with respect to magnetic north using outputs from the electronic compass;
means for normalizing the local latitude and longitude using a third transformation table;
a second neural network;
means for processing the normalized local latitude and longitude by the second neural network, the second neural network providing an estimate of the Earth's magnetic field declination angle;
means for automatically determining the orientation of the base unit with respect to true geographic north using the Earth's magnetic field declination angle; and
means for automatically compensating for steering errors due to any misalignment of the base unit using the base unit orientation with respect to true north.



14. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 13, wherein said means for automatic steering error compensation further comprises at least one tilt sensor and means for accepting base tilt information from the at least one tilt sensor.


15. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising:
means for accepting user entry of solar receiver position relative to the position of the base unit;
means for continuously calculating an optimal orientation of at least one array of solar reflectors to direct solar energy reflected by the solar reflector array to the solar receiver; and
means for sending the calculated positions to servomechanisms operably connected to the solar reflector array.



16. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, wherein the solar array includes at least one array of photovoltaic solar panels.


17. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising:
means for displaying menus and step-by-step instructions to guide a user through operation of the system, the step-by-step instructions including instructions for alignment of the system;
means for displaying measured parameters and computed parameters responsive to requests from the user;
means for accepting user entry of position data for a companion solar collector; and
means for sending steering commands to said servo systems responsive to user commands to the system.



18. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising a high speed digital communication link for sending positioning commands to a plurality of solar beam tracking assemblies.


19. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising means for communicating with a remote host computer for monitoring and supervisory control.


20. The system for automatic positioning of a solar array according to claim 11, further comprising means for estimating at least one of the second set of parameters based on processing the first set of parameters, the second set of parameters including sunset time, sunrise time, meridian time, and sun zenith angle at solar noon, the means for estimating including means for utilizing an interpolation equation to continuously update an estimation of the direction of the sun for a sun angular velocity of 15° degrees per hour. 

