
A solar panel array support system including a plurality of removable, interengaged adjacent support modules of similar configuration. Each support module mounts a PV solar panel, and also a DC-AC inverter electrically connected to the solar panel. The DC-AC inverter is also electrically connectable to additional DC-AC inverters mounted to the adjacent solar panel support modules. Each support module includes flexible male connector elements that enter a slot forming a female connector element in an adjacent support module to pivotally and removably engage each support module to another. Individual modules or a plurality of solar panel support modules can be readily removed from and replaced in a solar panel array, and can be readily removed and installed to form a second modular solar panel array.



1. A solar panel array support system comprising:
a plurality of support modules, each support module having a substantially similar configuration, each support module adapted to support at least one PV solar panel capable of generating electrical energy;
each support module having two side panels disposed substantially parallel to each other;
each support module further having a front panel and a rear panel disposed substantially parallel to each other;
each of said front panel and said rear panel having a slot and a connector;
each said side panel having a side panel slot and a side panel connector, each side panel slot engagingly connected with the connector of either the front panel or the rear panel such that the side panel is engagingly connected to both the front panel and the rear panel thus forming the support module;
wherein the side panel slot and the side panel connector of each of said side panels form a flexible connection when engagingly connected to the connector and slot of the front panel and the rear panel;
each said support module removably interengaged with an adjacent support module to form an array of said plurality of support modules;
each support module including at least one male pivot connector extending outwardly from said support module;
each support module including at least one female connector element receiving said at least one male pivot connector when said support module is interengaged with said adjacent support module;
said at least one male pivot connector permitting relative rotational movement between said interengaged support modules;
said at least one female connector element is selected from the group consisting of the slot and the side panel slot, said at least one female connector element adapted to receive said male pivot connector;
said male pivot connector supporting a rocking member, said rocking member inserted into the slot of said female connector element in said adjacent interengaged support module when said support modules are pivotally interengaged; and
each said support module adapted to support a first DC-AC inverter, each said first DC-AC inverter adapted to be electrically connected to the solar panel supported by said support module, each said first DC-AC inverter also adapted to be electrically connected to and disconnected from a second DC-AC inverter, said second DC-AC inverter supported by said adjacent support module and electrically connected to at least one solar panel supported by said adjacent support module.



2. The solar panel array support system of claim 1, wherein each said DC-AC inverter is mounted to a portion of one of said support modules.


3. The solar panel array support system of claim 1, wherein:
each said support module is flexibly and removably interengaged with said adjacent support module.



4. The solar panel array support system of claim 1, wherein:
each said slot and said side panel slot includes a stop member located at a predetermined position in said slot and said side panel slot, said male pivot connector being inserted into said slot and said side panel slot and abutting said stop member.



5. The solar panel array support system of claim 4, wherein:
each said side panel has front and rear ends, each said front and rear end including a plurality of said side panel slots.



6. The solar panel array support system of claim 5, wherein:
each of said plurality of said side panel slots in said side panels are uniformly configured.


