
A computer-enabled interactive site planner; said site planner adapted to the determination of solar radiation exposure profiles for a user-specified location; said site planner further adapted to providing data on shade providing objects and strategies for reduction of exposure risk appropriate to said user-specific location.



1. A non-transitory computer readable medium for carrying or having computer-executable instructions or data structures stored thereon which when executed implements an ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module configured:
a. to provide a site planning template; said template including features of existing and proposed shade producing structures and vegetation of a selected site;
b. to determine the degree, or risk, of exposure to ultraviolet radiation for a user-specified location within said selected site;
c. to output ultraviolet exposure risk assessments and ultraviolet exposure risk minimization strategies for said user-specified location as a function of at least the timing, duration and location of use of said user-specified location.



2. The medium of claim 1 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module is further configured to provide a shade audit of said user-specified location.


3. The medium of claim 2 wherein said shade audit includes a determination of current risk of damage from ultraviolet solar radiation.


4. The medium of claim 2 wherein said shade audit is adapted to assist a user of said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module to reduce said current risk.


5. The medium of claim 1 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module provides to a remote user a solar radiation exposure profile for said user-specified location based on data input by said user over the internet.


6. The medium of claim 1 wherein elements of said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module are down-loaded via the Internet by a user.


7. The medium of claim 1 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module includes a database for retaining data relevant to determination of solar radiation exposure profiles and shade structures.


8. The medium of claim 7 wherein said databases include solar radiation profile data.


9. The medium of claim 7 wherein said databases include climatic data.


10. The medium of claim 7 wherein said databases include geographical site location data.


11. A method for the determination by a user of levels of exposure to ultraviolet radiation associated with a user-specified site; said method including the steps of:
a) providing a computer readable medium incorporating an ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module to said user,
b) said user providing site location data to said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module,
c) said user providing data on existing structures and vegetation of said site to said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module,
d) a site planner element of said module integrating said provided data with a sun radiation profile and climatic information for said site to provide ultraviolet radiation exposure risk at various locations within said site.



12. The method of claim 11 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module provides access to databases with data relevant to ultraviolet radiation exposure as a function of characteristics of said user-specified site provided to said site planner.


13. The method of claim 12 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module integrates data maintained in said databases with data provided for said user-specified site to produce a shade audit of said user-specified site.


14. The method of claim 11 wherein a user of said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module is provided with a virtual representation of said user-specified site and with means for modifying shade providing characteristics of said user-specified site.


15. The method of claim 11 wherein shade audits may be generated iteratively so to derive a site plan in which risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation is assessed and minimisation plan developed.


16. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor implements an ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module configured:
to determine solar radiation exposure profiles for a user-specified location based on a site planning template which includes features of existing and proposed shade producing structures and vegetation within said user specified location;
to receive data from a remote database thereby to load said module with data specific to said user-specified location;
to provide data of objects and strategies for reduction of exposure risk at said user-specific location; and
wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module is web-enabled for interactive use by a user of said module.



17. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 16 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module comprises software for provision of a shade audit of a site at said user-specified location.


18. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 17 wherein said shade audit includes a determination of current risk of damage from ultraviolet solar radiation.


19. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 17 wherein said shade audit is adapted to assist a user of said risk exposure evaluation module to reduce said current risk.


20. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 16 wherein said risk exposure evaluation module provides to a remote user a solar radiation exposure profile for said user-specified location based on data input by said user over the Internet.


21. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 16 wherein elements of said risk exposure evaluation module are down-loaded via the Internet by a user.


22. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 21 wherein said module is downloaded over the Internet from a remote database.


23. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 21 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module communicates with and receives over the Internet from said remote database data relevant to ultraviolet radiation exposure as a function of characteristics of said user-specified site.


24. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 21 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module integrates data maintained in said databases with data provided for said user-specified site to produce a shade audit of said user-specified site.


25. The ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of claim 21 wherein a user of said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module is provided with a virtual representation of said user-specified site and with means for modifying shade providing characteristics of said user-specified site.


26. The method of claim 21 wherein shade audits may be generated iteratively so to derive a site plan in which risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation is assessed and minimisation plan developed.


27. A method for raising awareness in school students of health risks from exposure to ultraviolet exposure; said method including the steps of:
(a) providing a school with computer readable media incorporating an ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module,
(b) accepting input by said students into said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module of data relevant to the location of a school attended by said students,
(c) accepting input by said students of site specific features of built and natural shade affecting objects,
(d) accepting input by said students of areas within said site and duration of time spent within said areas,
(e) a site planner element of said module integrating said provided data with a sun radiation profile and climatic information for said site to provide ultraviolet radiation risk factors in conjunction with statistical data on deleterious health effects associated with said exposure, and
(f) providing feedback to said students based on input of said shade specific features of built and natural shading affecting objects compared to a base line audit calculated from said statistical data on deleterious health effects associated with said exposure.



28. The method of claim 27 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module produces an output indicating exposure risk.


29. The method of claim 27 wherein said ultraviolet risk exposure evaluation module includes a shade calendar; said shade calendar indicating categories of shade levels for months of a calendar year; said shade calendar further indicating apparent temperature and a related ultraviolet radiation index for each of said months. 

