
A photovoltaic panel clamp includes an upper and lower section. The interface between the assembled clamp halves and the module edge is filled by a flexible gasket material, such as EPDM rubber. The gasket preferably has small, finger like protrusions that allow for easy insertion onto the module edge while being reversed makes it more difficult to remove them from the module once installed. The clamp includes mounting posts or an integral axle to engage a bracket. The clamp also may include a locking tongue to secure the clamp to a bracket.



1. A photovoltaic panel clamp comprising:
a clamp housing comprising an upper clamp section and a lower clamp section, and having an upper clamp face and a lower clamp face,
a mounting axle; and
a grommet formed between the upper and lower clamp faces;
wherein the upper and lower clamp faces attach to an edge of a photovoltaic panel and hold the grommet against the panel, and the mounting axle provides an axis of rotation external to the edge of the panel, such that the panel can be lowered into a mounting bracket and rotated into a fixed position;
wherein the mounting axle comprises two mounting posts, one post formed on a first side the clamp, and a second post formed on a second side of the clamp.



2. The photovoltaic panel clamp of claim 1, wherein each mounting post comprises a head and a collar.


3. The photovoltaic panel clamp of claim 2, wherein the upper clamp section comprises:
a top half of a first mounting post; and
a top half of a second mounting post; and
the lower clamp section comprises:
a bottom half of a first mounting post; and
a bottom half of a second mounting post.



4. A photovoltaic panel clamp comprising:
an upper clamp section comprising:
a top half of a first mounting post; and
a top half of a second mounting post;

a lower clamp section comprising:
a bottom half of a first mounting post; and
a bottom half of a second mounting post; and

a grommet formed between the top clamp section and the bottom clamp section;
wherein the top and bottom halves of the first and second mounting posts comprise a head and a collar forming a mounting axle.



5. The panel clamp of claim 4, wherein the collar of the bottom halves of the first and second mounting posts comprises a flattened edge.


6. The panel clamp of claim 5, wherein the collar of the top halves of the first and second mounting posts comprises a flattened edge.


7. The panel clamp of claim 4, wherein the grommet comprises a flexible gasket material.


8. The panel clamp of claim 7, wherein the grommet comprises Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM), formed with small protrusions to grip a solar panel.


9. The panel clamp of claim 4, further comprising at least one locking tongue on the lower clamp section.


10. The panel clamp of claim 4, wherein the upper and lower sections comprise cast aluminum.


11. The panel clamp of claim 4, wherein the upper and lower sections comprise molded polymer resin.


12. The panel clamp of claim 4, wherein the grommet comprises a filler block to engage panels having an offset lower edge.


13. A photovoltaic panel clamp comprising:
an upper clamp section comprising:
a top half of a first mounting post; and
a top half of a second mounting post;

a lower clamp section comprising:
a bottom half of a first mounting post;
a bottom half of a second mounting post; and
at least one locking tongue on a bottom surface of the lower clamp section;

wherein the top and bottom halves of the first and second mounting posts comprise a head and a collar forming a mounting axle;
a threaded clamp fastener attaching the top and bottom clamp sections; and
a grommet formed between the top clamp section and the bottom clamp section, the rubber grommet comprising Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM), formed with small finger-like protrusions to grip a solar panel.



14. The panel clamp of claim 13, wherein the collar of the bottom halves of the first and second mounting posts comprises a flattened edge.


15. The panel clamp of claim 14, wherein the collar of the top halves of the first and second mounting posts comprises a flattened edge.


16. The panel clamp of claim 13, wherein the grommet comprises a filler block to engage panels having an offset lower edge.


17. A photovoltaic panel clamp comprising:
an upper clamp section comprising:
an upper clamp face; and
a mounting axle channel intersected by two slots;

a lower clamp section comprising:
lower clamp face; and
a mounting axle channel intersected by two slots;

a mounting axle; and
a grommet formed between the upper clamp face and the lower clamp face;
wherein the mounting axle is positioned internal to the clamp sections in the mounting axle channels and perpendicular to the slots, and wherein the slots in the upper and lower clamp faces expose the mounting axle to an external mounting structure.



18. The panel clamp of claim 17, wherein the grommet comprises a flexible gasket material.


19. The panel clamp of claim 18, wherein the grommet comprises Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM), formed with small protrusions to grip a solar panel.


20. The panel clamp of claim 17, further comprising at least one locking tongue on the lower clamp section.


21. The panel clamp of claim 17, wherein the grommet comprises a filler block to engage panels having an offset lower edge. 

