
A group of solar power stations with inverters are adjusted in order to achieve optimum power output in accordance with maximum power-point tracking (MPPT). The MPPT data is used to perform adjustments. Power measurement factors, including Maximum Power Points (MPPs) are established to represent a bus-voltage setting that produces the maximum power output from an individual photovoltaic panel. These settings are established for the group so as to optimize power output under a variety of operating conditions.



1. A method of controlling a group of power generating stations, each of the power generating stations comprising a DC power source supplying power to an inverter, the method comprising:
connecting a plurality of inverters to a communications network;
transmitting maximum power point (MPP) data over the network;
determining, from the MPP data, whether to operate any of the inverters as a slave inverter, and
upon assigning an inverter to operate as a slave inverter, setting or changing an operating point of the slave inverter responsive to the MPP data transmitted on the network.



2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
dynamically selecting one of said inverters to function as a master in accordance with predetermined criteria for a representative sample of similarly situated inverters; wherein
functioning as a master comprises MPP tracking.



3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
the inverters mapped according to said predetermined criteria;
in the case of the mapping resolving to a mapped cluster of said inverters that spans more than one allowable error margin, reducing the error margin to more clearly isolate the mapped cluster.



4. The method of claim 2, further comprising
setting an operating point of at least one slave to the MPP tracked by the master.



5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power generating stations to generate comparison data; and
adjusting the operating point of the inverter operating as a slave based on the comparison data.



6. The method of claim 5, wherein:
the DC source comprises photovoltaic panels;
the MPP data comprises a bus-voltage setting that produces a maximum power output from an individual photovoltaic panel; and
adjusting the operating point compensates for variation in MPP factors.




7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power generating stations to generate comparison data;
dynamically selecting a representative one of said power generating stations to function as a master based on the comparison data;
causing the master to execute an MPP tracking algorithm; and
setting the operating point of the slave inverter to the MPP tracked by the master.



8. The method of claim 7, wherein:
photovoltaic panels comprise the DC source in at least a subset of the power generating stations;
the MPP data comprises an operating point that produces a maximum power output from an individual photovoltaic panel; and
the MPP tracking provides adjustments for variation in at least one MPP factor.




9. The method of claim 7, wherein:
photovoltaic panels comprise the DC source in at least a subset of the power generating stations;
the MPP data comprises an operating point that produces a maximum power output from an individual photovoltaic panel; and
the MPP factor comprises irradiance near the photovoltaic panel.



10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power stations to generate comparison data;
using photovoltaic panels as the DC source in at least a subset of the power generating stations;
using a bus-voltage setting that produces a maximum power output
from an individual photovoltaic panel as part of the MPP data;

storing at least one MPP factor;
retrieving the stored MPP factor;
measuring at least one real-time MPP factor;
using the stored MPP factor and the real-time MPP factor to perform maximum
power-point tracking (MPPT).




11. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power generating stations in the power network to generate comparison data;
using photovoltaic panels as the DC source in at least a subset of the power generating stations;
using a bus-voltage setting that produces a maximum power output from an individual photovoltaic panel as part of the MPP data;
storing at least one MPP factor;
retrieving the stored MPP factor; and
measuring at least one real-time MPP factor;
wherein using the stored MPP factor and the real-time MPP factor to perform maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) provides adjustments for variation in MPP factors over time.



12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
setting the operating point of one or more inverters associated with the power generating stations based on maximum power points (MPPs);
mapping the inverters in MPP-factor space;
selecting an optimal grouping of masters and slaves according to predetermined criteria; and
re-evaluating and, if appropriate, reassigning masters and slaves either at fixed intervals or when measured MPP factors change by more than a threshold amount.



13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
setting the operating point of one or more inverters associated with the power generating stations based on maximum power points (MPPs);
mapping the inverters in MPP-factor space;
selecting an optimal grouping of masters and slaves according to predetermined criteria, including a minimum number of masters; and
re-evaluating and, if appropriate, reassigning masters and slaves either at fixed intervals or when measured MPP factors change by more than a threshold amount.



14. The method of claim 13, further comprising in the case of the mapping resolving to a mapped cluster of said inverters that spans more than one allowable error margin, reducing the error margin to more clearly isolate the mapped cluster.


15. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power generating stations to generate comparison data; and
using an operating-point setting that produces a maximum power output from an individual power generating station as part of the MPP data.



16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
performing maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) on inverter outputs of the power generating stations;
selecting the slave inverter to operate in response to a master inverter MPPT, and
selecting the master inverter from a group of inverters having MPP factors within a predetermined variance from the slave inverter .



17. The method of claim 1, wherein the operating point is transmitted over the network from a central control unit.


18. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
performing maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) on inverter outputs of the
power generating stations;

using a central control unit to adjust the operating point of the slave inverter
based on a result of the MPPT;

monitoring power produced by the slave inverter, and
in the event that the slave varies from a maximum power point (MPP)factor,
causing the slave inverter to override the control from the central control
unit and operate as a master.




19. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
performing maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) on inverter outputs of the
power generating stations; and

using peer-to-peer control to change the operating point of the slave inverter
based on a result of the MPPT.




20. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
performing maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) on inverter
outputs of the power generating stations; and

setting or changing the operating point of the slave inverter based on a predicted result of the MPPT.



21. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
tracking at least one MPP factor for at least one power generating station;
setting an operating point for the power generating station;
monitoring at least one sensor associated with the station, the sensor detecting at
least one of power, irradiance, and temperature;

determining whether a reading from the sensor represent a change
from a previous reading; and

in the case of the reading changing from the previous reading, effecting an adjustment in the operating point.



22. A method of controlling a power generating station within a group of power generating stations, the method comprising:
tracking at least one MPP factor for the power generating station;
identifying a corresponding MPP factor for at least one neighbor power generating station;
comparing the MPP factors or MPP data of the power generating station and the neighbor power generating station;
based on the compared MPP factors or MPP data, operating the power generating station as a master or as a slave; wherein having
a master performs MPP tracking, and
a slave sets its operating point to the master's most recently tracked MPP.




23. The method of claim 22, further comprising:
monitoring at least one sensor associated with the station, the sensor detecting at least one of power, irradiance, and temperature;
determining whether readings from the sensor represent a change from a previous reading; and
in the case of the reading changing from the previous reading, effecting an adjustment in the operating point.



24. The method of claim 22, further comprising:
setting the operating point of one or more inverters associated with the power generating stations based on maximum power points (MPPs); and
re-evaluating and, if appropriate, reassigning masters and slaves either at fixed intervals or when measured MPP factors change by more than a threshold amount.



25. The method of claim 24, further comprising:
setting the operating point of one or more inverters associated with the power generating stations based on maximum power points (MPPs);
mapping the inverters in MPP-factor space;
selecting an optimal grouping of masters and slaves according to predetermined criteria, including a minimum number of masters; and
re-evaluating and, if appropriate, reassigning masters and slaves either at fixed intervals or when measured MPP factors change by more than a threshold amount.



26. The method of claim 25, further comprising in the case of the mapping resolving to a mapped cluster of said inverters spans more than one allowable error margin, reducing the error margin to more clearly isolate the mapped cluster.


27. A method of controlling a power generating station within a group of multiple power generating stations, the method comprising:
selecting MPP factors or MPP data ;
reading the selected MPP factors or MPP data;
searching a data-store for a previous reading of the selected MPP factors or MPP data;
upon finding a previous reading, computing a difference between the reading and the previous reading and comparing the difference with an allowed margin;
in the case of the difference exceeding the allowed margin, or finding no previous reading, searching for another power generating station with similar MPP factors or MPP data;
in the case of locating another power generating station with similar MPP factors or MPP data, establishing one of the power generating stations as a slave; and
in the case of not locating another power generating station with similar MPP factors or MPP data, establishing the power generating station as a master.



28. The method of claim 27, wherein the readings comprise inverter maximum power point (MPP) readings.


29. Control apparatus for a group of power generating stations, comprising:
a circuit module capable of comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power stations to generate comparison data;
a circuit module capable of selecting a master inverter based on the comparison data and causing the master inverter to perform MPP tracking; and
a circuit module capable of adjusting an operating point of a slave inverter based on the MPP tracked by the master.



30. Control apparatus for a group of multiple power generating stations, comprising:
means for comparing MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power stations to generate comparison data;
means for performing maximum power-point tracking (MPPT) based on the comparison data to provide MPPT data; and
adjustment means for performing MPPT adjustments based on the MPPT data.



31. The control apparatus of claim 30, further comprising:
means for monitoring at least one MPP factor from a power station in the subset;
means for determining whether the monitored MPP factor results in an MPP variation greater than a margin threshold; and
means for causing the power station to override control from a central control unit and track its own MPP if the MPP variation is greater than the margin threshold.



32. A computer program product, comprising:
a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising:
a first instruction for causing a computer to compare MPP factors or MPP data from at least a subset of power stations in a group to generate comparison data;
a second instruction for causing the computer to select one of the power stations to temporarily operate as a master, cause the master to perform maximum power-point tracking (MPPT), and collect resulting MPP data; and
a third instruction for causing the computer to determine whether efficiency of the group would improve by operating another power station as a slave to the master, and if so, adjusting an operating point of the slave based on the MPP data.




33. The computer program product of claim 32, further comprising a fourth instruction for causing the computer to re-evaluate and, if appropriate, reassign masters and slaves either at fixed intervals or when measured maximum power point (MPP) factors change by more than a threshold amount.

