
Described herein are methods for forming a clip for mounting panels to a support frame. The clip has a common support area and a pair of extending panel holder elements extending in opposite directions from the common support area, where one of the extending panel holder elements extends further from the common support area than the other.



1. A method of manufacturing a clip for holding at least one photovoltaic structure to a support structure, said method comprising:
forming a clip frame having a common support area, a first and second sidewall each connected, respectively, to the common support area, and a first and second top extension each connected, respectively, to the first and second sidewalls; and
forming a pair of extending panel holding elements, each panel holding element adapted to hold an edge portion of a photovoltaic structure, each panel holding element abutting the first and second sidewalls, respectively, of the clip frame, and each extending in an opposite direction from said common support area, one of said panel holding elements extending from said common support area to a greater extent than the other of said panel holding elements,
wherein each top extension of the clip frame each comprises a top exterior surface and at least one structural feature located on each top exterior surface which cooperates with the respective holding element to hold the holding element in place with the clip frame.



2. The method of claim 1, wherein each panel holding element is a C-shaped holding element having a vertical barrier abutting the first and second sidewalls, respectively, of the clip frame, the vertical barrier connecting one end of a top section to one end of a respective bottom section, the top section being in contact with an underside of the respective top extension, and each panel holding element includes a flat middle section extending perpendicularly from a lower end of each vertical barrier and in a direction away from the bottom section of the respective holding element.


3. The method of claim 2, wherein the two C-shaped holding elements share a common middle section, the common middle section connecting the vertical barriers of the two C-shaped holding elements.


4. The method of claim 3, wherein the common support area and the flat middle section of the holding element share a common opening for allowing a fastener to pass through the common opening.


5. The method of claim 2, wherein the common support area is in contact with each flat middle section.


6. The method of claim 1, wherein said clip frame is formed from a metal material.


7. The method of claim 6, wherein said clip frame is formed from a stainless steel material.


8. The method of claim 1, wherein said common support area includes mounting portions for mounting said clip frame to the support structure.


9. The method of claim 8, wherein said mounting portions comprise at least one hole passing through said common support area for allowing a fastener to pass through the at least one hole.


10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said panel holding elements comprises a C-shaped panel holding area having a vertically extending wall, the C-shaped panel holding area extending in respective opposite directions from said common support area, a length of one of said C-shaped panel holding areas being greater than a length of the other of said C-shaped panel holding areas.


11. The method of claim 10, further comprising providing a resilient material on each C-shaped panel holding area for engaging with the photovoltaic structure.


12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one structural feature is at least one angled structure.


13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one angled structure is at least one angled tooth.


14. The method of claim 1, wherein each panel holding element is formed with a curved element for engaging with the at least one structural feature.


15. The method of claim 14, wherein each panel holding element comprises a vertically extending wall connecting a top section to a respective bottom section, and each curved element forms a hook above the top section of each respective holding element.


16. The method as in claim 1, wherein said panel holding elements are formed to have a height from a bottom of said clip sufficient to hold an edge of said photovoltaic structure to said support structure.


17. The method of claim 1, wherein each panel holding element is a C-shaped holding element comprising a vertical barrier abutting the respective sidewall of the clip frame and connecting one end of a top section to one end of a bottom section, the top section being in contact with an underside of the respective top extension, and a top surface of the bottom section having raised teeth protruding to resist photovoltaic structure movement, the raised teeth at least partially covering a width of the bottom section.


18. The method of claim 1, wherein the angle between each sidewall and the respective top extension is less than 90 degrees.


19. The method of claim 1, wherein each panel holding element is a C-shaped holding element having a vertical barrier abutting the first and second sidewalls, respectively, of the clip frame, the vertical barrier connecting one end of a top section to one end of a respective bottom section, the top section being in contact with an underside of the respective top extension, the length of the holding element bottom section being longer than the length of the respective holding element top section. 

