
A photovoltaic module with photovoltaic cell and a heat sink. The heat sink is attached on a side of the cell opposite to the light-receiving side of the photovoltaic cell. The heat sink can remove heat caused by light absorbed by the photovoltaic cell but not converted to electricity as well as heat generated by resistance to high current passing through electrodes of the photovoltaic cell. A photovoltaic module formed of such cells can exhibit greater energy conversion efficiency as a result of the ability to dissipate the heat. A method of making a solar module involves e.g. laminating a heat sink to a photovoltaic cell.



1. A photovoltaic module comprising:
a. a plurality of photovoltaic cells;
b. a frame retaining the plurality of photovoltaic cells and exposing light-receiving surfaces of the plurality of photovoltaic cells along a first surface of the frame; and
c. a heat sink in thermal communication with an unexposed surface of said plurality of photovoltaic cells, said heat sink comprising:
i) a base positioned substantially parallel to said unexposed surface; and
ii) a plurality of protrusions attached to the base;

wherein said frame comprises a flange extending through a plane containing said first surface of said frame, and oriented to channel a volume of air through said plane, said volume of air flowing through said plurality of protrusions;
wherein said photovoltaic module is non-concentrating;
wherein the protrusions are discontinuous in a first lateral axis parallel to the base and define a first air flow channel pattern and
wherein the protrusions are discontinuous in a second lateral axis parallel to the base and define a second air flow channel pattern different from the first air flow channel pattern.



2. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, further comprising a thermal interface layer between the heat sink and said unexposed surface to improve heat dissipation.


3. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, further comprising a conformal coating on said light-receiving surfaces substantially transparent to visible light.


4. The photovoltaic module of claim 1, wherein said frame is configured to allow unimpeded access of ambient air to said plurality of protrusions.


5. The photovoltaic module from claim 1, wherein said protrusions are fins.


6. The photovoltaic module of claim 5, wherein said fins are discontinuous along a long axis of said base to form air escape and entry channels.


7. The photovoltaic module of claim 6, wherein said air escape and entry channels are herringbone shape.


8. The photovoltaic module from claim 5, wherein:
said base has a thickness between 0.05″ and 0.5″; and
said fins each independently have a height between 0.25″ and 7″, a center to center spacing between 0.05″ and 1″, and a width between 0.001″ and 0.25″.



9. The photovoltaic module of claim 4, further comprising legs for mounting the photovoltaic module.


10. The photovoltaic module of claim 9, wherein the legs extend below the frame to impede access of ambient air to the plurality of protrusions. 

