
Systems and methods for disposing and supporting a solar panel array are disclosed. The embodiments comprise various combinations of cables, support columns, and pod constructions in which to support solar panels. The solar panels can incorporate single or dual tracking capabilities to enhance sunlight capture. The embodiments encourage dual land use in which installation of the systems minimizes disruption of the underlying ground. Supplemental power may be provided by vertical axis windmills integrated with the columns. Special installations of the system can include systems mounted over structures such as parking lots, roads and aqueducts.



1. A solar panel system comprising:
a plurality of panel receivers each having a plurality of solar panels mounted thereto, said receivers being arranged in a combination defining a solar panel array;
a support system for supporting the panel receivers, the support system comprising a plurality of support cables suspended between a plurality of columns, said plurality of cables including an upper support cable extending across an area where the system is located, and said cables further including a plurality of vertically extending intermediate tie-downs connected at their first ends to the upper support cables;
said array further includes at least one continuous tensioning cable and a plurality of tensioning devices for selectively tensioning said tensioning cable, said tensioning cable extending across said array in a diagonal configuration including a plurality of turns in which the diagonal cable changes directions along said array, wherein each of said plurality of tensioning devices comprise a roller configured to receive said tensioning cable and a locking member that engages said tensioning cable to compress and hold said tensioning cable against said roller;
said plurality of tensioning devices located at each intersection point of said upper support cable and said tensioning cable, wherein said plurality of tensioning devices are configured to tension said tensioning cable by manipulating a free end of said tensioning cable.



2. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said system further includes a plurality of exterior tie-downs extending diagonally from upper ends of corresponding columns, and having second ends connected to a plurality of corresponding third subsurface supports.



3. A system, as claimed in claim 2, wherein:
at least one of said exterior tie-downs, intermediate tie-downs and columns comprise a continuous rigid member with a lower portion thereof forming said subsurface supports.



4. A system, as claimed in claim 1, further including:
a plurality of diagonally extending cables secured to one side of said array, and said diagonally extending cables each having one end connected to one of said subsurface supports.



5. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said converging tie-downs include cables that are located at each end of a corresponding panel receiver, and the cables converging to a single anchor point for connection to said subsurface supports.



6. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said subsurface supports include at least one of a pile, anchor, or foundation element.



7. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
a plurality of first subsurface supports connected to corresponding intermediate tie-downs at second lower ends of said tie-downs.



8. A system, as claimed in claim 7, wherein:
a plurality of converging tie-downs secured to opposite lateral sides of said array, said converging tie-downs including a plurality of above ground portions with first ends connected to said panel receivers, and second opposite ends converging to attach to corresponding second subsurface supports.


