
A junction box for a solar module is disclosed and comprises a housing having an opening for introducing a plurality of conductor strips; and an electrical connection mechanism disposed in a receptacle of the housing. The electrical connection mechanism comprises a plurality of conductor strip connection devices disposed on an inner surface of the housing for connecting to the conductor strips; and a current-path arrangement module detachably connected with the conductor strip connection devices and comprising a carrier, a plurality of electricity conveying elements and a plurality of electronic components, wherein the electricity conveying elements and the electronic components are disposed on one surface of the carrier, and each electronic component is connected with two adjacent electricity conveying elements.



1. A junction box, comprising:
a housing having an opening for introducing a plurality of conductor strips thereinto; and
an electrical connection mechanism disposed in a receptacle of said housing and comprising:
a plurality of conductor strip connection devices disposed on an inner surface of said housing for connecting to said conductor strips; and
a current-path arrangement module detachably connected with said conductor strip connection devices and comprising a carrier, a plurality of electricity conveying elements and a plurality of electronic components, wherein said electricity conveying elements and said electronic components are disposed on one surface of said carrier, and each said electronic component is connected with two adjacent electricity conveying elements.




2. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said electronic components are bypass diodes.


3. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said electricity conveying elements are separately disposed on said surface of said carrier to form a plurality of electricity conveying paths, and each said electronic component is connected to two adjacent electricity conveying elements so as to form a current-path arrangement.


4. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said carrier is a printed circuit board or a wiring board, and said electricity conveying elements are electrical conductive traces disposed on said surface of said carrier.


5. The junction box according to the claim 4, wherein said electricity conveying element comprises:
a first connection pad disposed on a first side edge of said carrier for connecting to a corresponding conductor strip connection device; and
a second connection pad disposed on a second side edge of said carrier opposite to said first side edge for connecting to a contact portion of an electrical cable.



6. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said carrier is a supporting plate for supporting and mounting said electricity conveying elements and said electronic components thereon, and said electricity conveying elements are electrical conductive rails disposed on said surface of said carrier.


7. The junction box according to the claim 6, wherein each said electronic component has two terminals connected and fastened to two adjacent electrical conductive rails of said current-path arrangement module.


8. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said electricity conveying elements are mounted on said surface of said carrier by rails, embedding, engaging, locking or adhesive.


9. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said carrier is mounted on a bottom surface of a base of said housing by screwing, locking or engaging.


10. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein each of said electricity conveying elements comprises:
a main body having an engaging element, a first sidewall and a second sidewall, each of said first sidewall and said second sidewall having at least one sliding slot, wherein said sliding slot includes plural guiding segments, a curve segment and a bottom segment; and
a resilient member having two arms, a connection portion and at least one engaging element, wherein said engaging element is extended outwardly from said connection portion and secured to said engaging element in an inner surface of said main body so that said resilient member is disposed in an interior of said main body and said two arms are disposed adjacent to said sliding slots of said main body.



11. The junction box according to the claim 10, wherein one terminal of said electronic component is pressed and guided toward said bottom segment of said sliding slot and goes across said curve segment so that said terminal of said electronic component is positioned in said bottom segment of said sliding slot by said resilient member.


12. The junction box according to the claim 10, wherein said main body of said electricity conveying element further includes a first connection pad and a second connection pad for connecting to a corresponding conductor strip connection device and a corresponding electrical cable, respectively.


13. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein each of said electricity conveying elements includes a main body having at least one engaging element, and said carrier has a plurality of engaging elements for engaging with said engaging elements of said electricity conveying elements.


14. The junction box according to the claim 13, wherein said engaging elements of said carrier are hooks, and said engaging elements of said electricity conveying elements are engaging slots.


15. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said carrier further comprises one or more securing element, and a base of said housing includes one or more securing element for fastening with said securing element of said carrier.


16. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said carrier includes a plurality of supporting elements for supporting and securing a plurality of terminals of said electronic components so that said terminals of said electronic components are coupled to said electricity conveying elements.


17. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein said supporting elements are protrusion rods with clamping arms.


18. The junction box according to the claim 1, wherein each of said conductor strip connection devices includes a terminal connection part for structurally and electrically connecting to a corresponding conductor strip.


19. An electrical connection mechanism for a junction box of a solar module, comprising:
a plurality of conductor strip connection devices for structurally and electrically connecting to a plurality of conductor strips of said solar module; and
a current-path arrangement module detachably connected with said conductor strip connection devices and comprising a carrier, a plurality of electricity conveying elements and a plurality of electronic components, wherein said electricity conveying elements and said electronic components are disposed on one surface of said carrier, said electricity conveying elements are connected with said conductor strip connection devices respectively, and said electronic components are connected with said electricity conveying elements.



20. The electrical connection mechanism according to the claim 19, wherein said electronic components are bypass diodes. 

