
Apparatus for coupling power generated by a photovoltaic (PV) module to an output. The apparatus comprises a universal connector assembly, comprising a connector housing, adapted for coupling to the PV module, comprising a DC connection assembly for coupling power from the PV module to a power module via a first plurality of connectors; and a base for supporting the power module spaced apart from the PV module in a manner that exposes at least a portion of the power module facing the PV module to the air and prevents air from being trapped between the power module and the PV module.



1. Apparatus for coupling power generated by a photovoltaic (PV) module to an output, comprising:
a universal connector assembly, comprising:
a connector housing, adapted for coupling to the PV module, comprising a DC connection assembly for coupling power from the PV module to a power module via a first plurality of connectors; and
a base for supporting the power module spaced apart from the PV module in a manner that exposes at least a portion of the power module facing the PV module to the air and prevents air from being trapped between the power module and the PV module, wherein the connector housing defines a well that exposes at least two PV module contacts subsequent to the connector housing being adhered to the PV module;
a safety latch coupled to the connector housing that, when moved to a closed positioned, secures the power module and exposes an interface of the power module to couple power from the power module.



2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the DC connection assembly comprises a memory for storing an identifier for the PV module.


3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first plurality of connectors comprises (i) at least two DC connectors for coupling to at least two PV module contacts, and (ii) at least one bypass component coupled between the at least two DC connectors.


4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the well further includes exposing at least two DC connectors.


5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the well, subsequent to the at least two DC connectors being coupled to the at least two PV module contacts, is at least one of encapsulated by a potting material or sealed by a cover.


6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the connector housing or the base comprises at least one flange for aligning the power module with the universal connector assembly when coupling the power module to the universal connector assembly.


7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of connectors is adapted for coupling the power module to the universal connector assembly by a horizontal sliding technique, a pivot technique, or a top insert technique.


8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of connectors is adapted for being coupled to a second plurality of connectors of the power module by a cam action.


9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base is substantially Y-shaped.


10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the power module is interchangeable and comprising: a DC junction box, a DC/DC converter, or a DC/AC inverter.


11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the power module comprises a second plurality of connectors adapted for being coupled to the first plurality of connectors by a horizontal sliding technique, a pivot technique, or a top insert technique.


12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the power module comprises a second plurality of connectors adapted for being electrically coupled to the first plurality of connectors by a cam action.


13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an area of the power module surface is reflective for reflecting heat generated by the PV module.


14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the power module comprises a heat sink for dissipating heat generated by the power module.


15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the heat sink is formed from black anodized metal.


16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the universal connector assembly comprises at least a first flange and the power module comprises at least a second flange, the at least a first flange adapted for receiving the at least a second flange for aligning the power module with the universal connector assembly when coupling the power module to the universal connector assembly.


17. Apparatus for coupling a power module to a photovoltaic (PV) module, comprising:
a universal connector assembly, comprising:
a connector housing, adapted for coupling to the PV module, for coupling power from the PV module to the power module;
a base, extending from the connector housing, for supporting the power module; and
a safety latch, coupled to the connector housing, for retaining the power module when the power module is coupled to the universal connector assembly and comprising a power output connector interface for ensuring the power module cannot be removed from the universal connector assembly while having a power output connector connected, wherein closing the safety latch secures the power module into position and exposes an interface of the power module for providing output power from the power module.




18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the safety latch comprises a puller for drawing the power module toward the universal connector assembly when the safety latch is moved from an open to a closed position.


19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the safety latch comprises an ejector for ejecting the power module from the universal connector assembly when the safety latch is moved from a closed position to an open position. 

