
A photovoltaic (PV) ac-module grounding system includes a plurality of PV dc-voltage modules. Each PV dc-voltage module is integrated with a corresponding dc-ac micro-inverter to provide a corresponding PV ac-voltage module. Each PV ac-voltage module includes an ac-voltage plug and play connector that includes a dc ground conductor. Each dc-ac micro-inverter is internally electrically connected to its own chassis ground or metal enclosure which in turn is electrically connected to a corresponding dc ground conductor. A dc ground path is carried through an ac power bus from ac-voltage module to ac-voltage module through the plug and play connectors via the dc ground conductors.



1. A photovoltaic (PV) grounding system comprising:
a plurality of ac-voltage modules comprising a plurality of dc-ac micro-inverters and a plurality of PV dc-voltage modules, wherein each of the plurality of dc-ac micro-inverters is integrated with a corresponding PV dc-voltage module to form an ac-voltage module, wherein each dc-ac micro-inverter comprises a respective chassis ground, wherein each ac-voltage module comprises a metallic enclosure and at least one ac-power connector, and wherein the at least one ac-power connector comprises a dc-voltage ground conductor electrically connected to a corresponding chassis ground; and
a frame structure comprising a metallic grounding frame configured to receive the plurality of ac-voltage modules such that the at least one ac-power connector carries a dc-voltage ground connection from ac-voltage module to ac-voltage module through the plurality of ac-voltage modules via the dc-voltage ground conductors corresponding to the plurality of ac-voltage modules.



2. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein each ac-voltage connector further comprises a neutral voltage conductor pin and one or more ac-voltage pins.


3. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein the dc-voltage ground conductor comprises a make first, break last ground connection.


4. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein each ac-voltage connector is selected from a 120V-ac connector and a 240V-ac connector.


5. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein each micro-inverter chassis ground is electrically connected to its corresponding ac-voltage module enclosure via a respective fixed non-insertable metallic grounding element.


6. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein at least one ac-voltage module enclosure is electrically connected to the metallic grounding frame via a respective fixed non-insertable metallic grounding element.


7. The PV grounding system according to claim 1, wherein at least one ac-voltage connector comprises a male connector and at least one other ac-voltage connector comprises a female connector, wherein each male ac-voltage connector is keyed to ensure proper electrical alignment with each female ac-voltage connector.


8. A photovoltaic (PV) grounding system comprising:
a plurality of PV ac-voltage modules, wherein each of the plurality of PV ac-voltage modules comprises a metallic enclosure and at least one ac-power connector, and wherein the at least one ac-power connector comprises a dc-voltage ground conductor; and
a frame structure comprising a metallic grounding frame configured to receive the plurality of PV ac-voltage modules such that the at least one ac-power connector carries a dc-voltage ground connection from ac-voltage module to ac-voltage module through the plurality of PV ac-voltage modules via the dc-voltage ground conductors corresponding to the plurality of ac-voltage modules.



9. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein each PV ac-voltage module further comprises:
a PV dc-voltage module; and
a dc-ac micro-inverter comprising a chassis ground electrically connected to a corresponding dc-voltage ground conductor, wherein the PV dc-voltage module and the dc-ac micro-inverter together are configured to generate a desired ac-voltage.



10. The PV grounding system according to claim 9, wherein each dc-ac micro-inverter chassis ground is electrically connected to its corresponding ac-voltage module enclosure via a respective fixed non-insertable metallic grounding element.


11. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein at least one ac-voltage module enclosure is electrically connected to the metallic grounding frame via a respective fixed non-insertable metallic grounding element.


12. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein each ac-voltage connector further comprises a neutral conductor pin and one or more ac-voltage pins.


13. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein the dc-voltage ground conductor comprises a make first, break last ground connection.


14. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein each ac-voltage connector is selected from a 120V-ac connector and a 240V-ac connector.


15. The PV grounding system according to claim 8, wherein at least one ac-voltage connector comprises a male connector and at least one other ac-voltage connector comprises a female connector, wherein each male ac-voltage connector is keyed to ensure proper electrical alignment with each female ac-voltage connector. 

