
An automated method to monitor performance and adjust the programmed motion of a terrestrial solar cell array tracking the sun. The solar cell system includes two motor drives that adjust a position of the array along different respective axes with respect to the sun. A software algorithm predicts the position of the sun during the course of the day, and a kinematic model with adjustable encoding parameters controls the motor drives. Sampled data taken periodically may be used to update and modify the encoding parameters of the kinematic model in order to improve accuracy of the position of the array as it moves during the course of the day due to changes in mechanical or foundational positions supporting the array that may occur over the course of time.



1. An automated method of causing a photovoltaic solar cell array of a terrestrial solar cell system to track the sun, the system comprising two motor drives each of which is operable to adjust a position of the array along a different respective axis with respect to the sun, the method comprising:
(a) using a sun position predictor to predict a position of the sun in the sky at a time after sunrise based, at least in part, on the latitude, longitude and elevation of the array;
(b) using a computer kinematic model to determine respective actuations for the motor drives corresponding to the solar cell array being substantially aligned with the sun during the course of the day, the kinematic model including encoding parameters;
(c) using the sun position predictor and the kinematic model to position the array so that the array is aligned to follow a predetermined track corresponding to the predicted position of the sun during the course of the day;
(d) periodically sampling the output of the array during the course of the day at sun position pi (where i=1 through n), and resetting the position of the array to a new sun position pi′ (where i=1 through n) that results in an increase in the output of the array at that position;
(e) storing the sequence of new sun positions pi′ (where i=1 through n) corresponding to the track of the array during the course of a day in a memory;
(f) adjusting the parameters of the kinematic model to form a list of test kinematic models over the range of sun positions;
(g) evaluating each of the test kinematic models against a predetermined evaluation criteria as they simulate a progression through the range of sun positions during the course of the day;
(h) selecting one of the test kinematic models that best meets the evaluation criteria; and
(i) modifying the operational kinematic model of the array to conform to the parameters of the selected test kinematic model, so that subsequently the motion of the array at predetermined times during the course of the day tracks the set of reset positions with maximum output.



2. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the encoding parameter is a digital signal representing the number of shaft revolutions of at least one of the motor drives.


3. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the kinematic model relates the actuation parameters of the respective motor drives in such manner that the motor drives function to position the array so that the array is pointed at a sun position in the sky represented by the sun elevation and azimuth angles determined by the sun position predictor.


4. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second motor drives are coupled to mechanical components of the array that adjust the elevation and azimuth angle respectively of the array.


5. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein one of the motor drives is a linear actuator.


6. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second motor drives are coupled to components of the array that change the roll and pitch motion respectively of the array.


7. An automated method as defined in claim 6, wherein the first motor drive is coupled to a torque tube of the array.


8. An automated method as defined in claim 6, wherein the second motor drive is coupled to a pivot linkage arm of the array.


9. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the array is a flat panel.


10. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the output of the array which is sampled is the electrical current.


11. An automated method as defined in claim 1, further comprising computing a new track if the output of the array is less than a predetermined percentage of one or more of the adjoining arrays.


12. An automated method as defined in claim 1, further comprising communicating the output of the array to a remote monitor if the output of the array is less than a predetermined percentage of one or more of the adjoining arrays.


13. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein communicating the output of the array to a remote monitor is performed by transmitting a radio paging signal.


14. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of adjusting the parameters of the kinematic model is performed after initial installation of the array.


15. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the sun position predictor is a software algorithm, and the sun position predictor and the computer kinematic model are stored in a controller which is electrically connected to the array.


16. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of adjusting the parameters of the kinematic model is performed by downloading instructions from a remote location to a controller which is electrically connected to the array.


17. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the evaluation criteria is minimizing the least square errors.


18. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the evaluation criteria is a best curve fit.


19. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic solar cell array includes:
first and second vertical supports that each include a first end mounted on a support surface and a second end;
a longitudinal support mounted on the second end of said first and second vertical supports respectively, and longitudinally extending between said supports over the surface of the earth, wherein the first motor drive is operatively connected to the longitudinal support to rotate the longitudinal support along its axis during the course of a day; and
a plurality of solar cell modules pivotably coupled to the longitudinal support and spaced along a length of the longitudinal support to track the azimuth and elevation of the sun during the course of the day; wherein the second motor drive is coupled to the modules to simultaneously rotate the modules along an axis substantially orthogonal to the axis of said longitudinal support.



20. An automated method as defined in claim 1, wherein the solar cell module includes:
a housing comprising a first side and an opposing spaced-apart second side;
a plurality of lenses on the first side of the housing;
a plurality of solar cell receivers on the second side of the housing, each of the plurality of solar cell receivers comprising:
a III-V compound semiconductor multijunction solar cell including a first surface and a second surface;
a bypass diode coupled with the solar cell;
a heat sink positioned below the second surface of the solar cell and thermally coupled to the solar cell;
at least one optical element positioned above the first surface to guide the light onto the solar cell;
each of said solar cell receivers being disposed in an optical path of one of the plurality of lenses, wherein the lens and the at least one optical element concentrate the light onto the respective solar cell by a factor of 500 or more to generate in excess of 25 watts of peak power. 


